Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

Friends, delegates and distinguished guests, please. I stand before you tonight honored by your support, proud of the extraordinary progress we have made together over the last four incredible years and blooming with confidence in the bright future we will build for America over the next four years.

We begin this evening — our thoughts are with the wonderful people who have just come through the wrath of hurricane Laura. We are working closely with state and local officials in Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi. Sparing no effort to save lives while the hurricane was fierce, one of the strongest to make landfall in 150 years. The casualties and damage were far less than thought possible only 24 hours ago.

Editors’ Picks

How Has Donald Trump Survived?

Trump Books Keep Coming, and Readers Can’t Stop Buying

When Democracy Dies in Daylight

And this is due to the great work of FEMA, law enforcement and the individual states. I will be going this weekend. And congratulations, thank you for that great job out there. We really appreciate it. We are one national family, and we will always protect, love and care for each other. Here tonight are the people who have made my journey possible and filled my life with so much joy.

For her incredible service to our nation and its children, I want to thank our magnificent first lady. I also want to thank my amazing daughter Ivanka for that introduction, and to all of my children. Ivanka — please stand up — and to all of my children and grandchildren, I love you more than words can express.

I know my brother Robert is looking down on us right now from heaven. He was a great brother and was very proud of the job we are all doing. Thank you. We love you, Robert.

Let us also take a moment to show our profound appreciation for a man who has always fought by our side and stood up for our values, a man of deep faith and steadfast conviction — our vice president, Mike Pence.

And Mike is joined by his beloved wife, a teacher and military mom, Karen Pence.

My fellow Americans, tonight, with a heart full of gratitude and boundless optimism, I profoundly accept this nomination for president of the United States.

The Republican Party, the party of Abraham Lincoln, goes forward united, determined and ready to welcome millions of Democrats, independents and anyone who believes in the greatness of America and the righteous heart of the American people.

In the new term as president, we will again build the greatest economy in history, quickly returning to full employment, soaring incomes and record prosperity. We will defend America against all threats and protect America against all dangers. We will lead America into new frontiers of ambition and discovery, and we will reach four new heights of national achievement. We will rekindle faith in our values, new pride in our history and a new spirit of unity that can only be realized through love for our great country.


Because we understand that America is not a land cloaked in darkness. America is the torch that enlightens the entire world. Gathered here at our beautiful and majestic White House, known all over the world as the people’s house, we cannot help but marvel at the miracle that is our great American story.

This has been the home of larger-than-life figures like Teddy Roosevelt and Andrew Jackson, who rallied Americans to bold visions  of a bigger and brighter future. Within these walls lived tenacious generals like President Grant and Eisenhower, who led our soldiers in the cause of freedom. From these grounds, Thomas Jefferson sent Lewis and Clark to chart our continent. In the depths of a bloody Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln looked out these very windows upon a half-completed Washington Monument and asked God and his Providence to save our nation. Two weeks after Pearl Harbor, Franklin Delano Roosevelt welcomed Winston Churchill, and just inside, they set our people on course to victory in the Second World War.

In recent months, our nation and the entire planet has been struck by a new and powerful invisible enemy. Like those brave Americans before us, we are meeting this challenge. We are delivering lifesaving therapies and will produce a vaccine before the end of the year, or maybe even sooner. We will defeat the virus and the pandemic and emerge stronger than ever before.

What united generations past was an unshakable confidence in America’s destiny and an unbreakable faith in the American people. They knew that our country is blessed by God and has a special purpose in this world. It is that conviction that inspired the formation of our union, our westward expansion, the abolition of slavery, the passage of civil rights, the space program and the overthrow of fascism, tyranny, and communism.

This towering American spirit has prevailed over every challenge and has lifted us to the summit of human endeavor. And yet despite all of our greatness as a nation, everything we have achieved is now in danger. This is the most important election in the history of our country.

Thank you. At no time before have voters faced a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies or two agendas. This election will decide if we save the American dream or whether we allow a socialist agenda to demolish our cherished destiny. It will decide whether we rapidly create millions of high-paying jobs or whether we crush our industries and send millions of these jobs overseas, as has been foolishly done for many decades. Your vote will decide whether we protect law-abiding Americans or whether we give free rein to violent anarchists and agitators and criminals who threaten our citizens.

And this election will decide whether we will defend the American way of life or allow a radical movement to completely dismantle and destroy it. It won’t happen. At the Democrat National Convention, Joe Biden and his party repeatedly assailed America as a land of racial, economic and social injustice, so tonight, I ask you a simple question: How can the Democratic Party ask to lead our country when it spent so much time tearing down our country?


In the left’s  backward view, they do not see America as the most free, just and exceptional nation on Earth. Instead, they see a wicked nation that must be punished for its sins. Our opponents say that redemption for you can only come from giving power to them. This is a tired anthem spoken by every repressive movement throughout history, but in this country, we don’t look to career politicians for salvation. In America, we do not turn to government to restore ourselves. We put our faith in almighty God.

Joe Biden is not a savior of America’s soul. He is the destroyer of America’s jobs, and if given the chance, he will be the destroyer of America’s greatness. For 47 years, Joe Biden took the donations of blue-collar workers, gave them hugs, and even kisses, and told them he felt their pain, and then he flew back to Washington and voted to ship our jobs to China and many other distant lands.

Joe Biden spent his entire career outsourcing their dreams and the dreams of American workers, offshoring their jobs, opening their borders and sending their sons and daughters to fight in endless foreign wars, wars that never ended.

Four years ago, I ran for president because I cannot watch this betrayal of our country any longer. I could not sit by as career politicians let other countries take advantage of us on trade, borders, foreign policy and national defense. Our NATO partners, as an example, were very far behind in their defense payments, but at my strong urging, they agreed to pay $130 billion more a year — the first time in over 20 years that they upped their payments.

And this $130 billion will ultimately go to $400 billion a year, and Secretary General Stoltenberg, who heads NATO, was amazed after watching for so many years and said that President Trump did what no one else was able to do. Thank you.

From the moment I left my former life behind — and it was a good life — I have done nothing but fight for you. I did what our political establishment never expected and could never forgive, breaking the cardinal rule of Washington politics. I kept my promise. Together we have ended the rule of the failed political class, and they are desperate to get their power back by any means necessary. You have seen that. They are angry at me because instead of putting them first, I very simply said, “America first.”

Thank you.

Days after taking office, we shocked the Washington establishment and withdrew from the last administration’s job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. I then immediately approved the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines, ended the unfair and very costly Paris climate accord and secured, for the first time, American energy independence.


We passed record-setting tax and regulation cuts at a rate nobody had ever seen before. Within three short years, we built the strongest economy in the history of the world. Washington insiders asked me not to stand up to China. They pleaded with me to let China continue stealing our jobs, ripping us off and robbing our country blind, but I kept my word to the American people. We took the toughest, boldest, strongest and hardest-hitting action against China in American history by far.

They said that it would be impossible to replace NAFTA, but again they were wrong. Earlier this year, I ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand-new Mexico-U.S.-Canada agreement into law. And right now, auto companies and others are building their plants and factories in America, not firing their employees, and not deserting us for other countries.

In perhaps no area did the Washington special interests try harder to stop us than on my policy of pro-American immigration. But I refused to back down, and today America’s borders are more secure than ever before.

Thank you.

We ended catch and release, stopped asylum fraud, took down human traffickers who prey on women and children, and we have deported 20,000 gang members and 500,000 criminal aliens. We have already built 300 miles of border wall, and we are adding 10 new miles every single week. The wall will soon be complete, and it is working beyond our wildest expectations.

We are joined this evening by members of the Border Patrol union, representing our country’s courageous border agents. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you, brave, brave people.

You see, this country loves our law enforcement. They do. They do. They really do. Love and respect. When I learned that the Tennessee Valley Authority laid off hundreds of American workers and forced them to train their lower-paid foreign replacements, I promptly removed the chairman of the board, and now those talented American workers have been rehired and are back providing power to Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina and Virginia.

They have their old jobs back, and some are here with us this evening. Please stand. You went through a lot. Please stand. Thank you. Thank you very much. You have been through a lot. Thank you very much.


Last month, I took on big pharma. You think that’s easy? It’s not. And signed orders that would massively lower the cost of your prescription drugs and give critically ill patients access to lifesaving cures. We passed the decades-long-awaited right to try, right to try.

We also passed V.A. Accountability and V.A. Choice; our great veterans, we’re taking care of our veterans — 91 percent approval rating this month, the V.A. Given by our veterans. First time anything like that has happened.

By the end of my first term, we will have approved more than 300 federal judges, including two new great Supreme Court justices. And to bring prosperity to our forgotten inner cities, we worked hard to pass historic criminal justice reform, prison reform, opportunity zones and long-term funding of historically Black colleges and universities, and before the China virus came in, produced the best unemployment numbers for African-Americans, Hispanic Americans and Asian-Americans ever recorded.

And I say very modestly that I have done more for the African-American community than any president since Abraham Lincoln, our first Republican president.

And I have done more in three years for the Black community than Joe Biden has done in 47 years. And when I am re-elected, the best is yet to come.

Thank you very much.

When I took office, the Middle East was in total chaos. ISIS was rampaging, Iran was on the rise, and the war in Afghanistan had no end in sight. I withdrew from the terrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal.

Unlike many presidents before me, I kept my promise, recognized Israel’s true capital and moved our Embassy to Jerusalem.


But not only did we talk about it as a future site; we got it built. Rather than spending $1 billion on a new building as planned, we took an already owned, existing building in a better location. Real estate deal, right? And opened it at a cost of less than $500,000. Many things like that the government is doing right now. We also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, and this month we achieved the first Middle East peace deal in 25 years. Thank you to the U.A.E. Thank you to Israel.

In addition, we obliterated 100 percent of the ISIS caliphate and killed its founder and leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Then, in a separate operation, we eliminated the world’s No. 1 terrorist by far, Qassim Suleimani.

Unlike previous administrations, I have kept America out of new wars, and our troops are coming home. We have spent nearly $2.5 trillion on completely rebuilding our military, which was very badly depleted when I took office, as you know. This includes three separate pay raises for our great warriors.

We also launched the Space Force, the first new branch of the United States military since the Air Force was created almost 75 years ago.

We have spent the last four years reversing the damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years. Biden’s record is a shameful roll call of the most catastrophic betrayals and blunders in our lifetime. He has spent his entire career on the wrong side of history. Biden voted for the NAFTA disaster, the single worst trade deal ever enacted. He supported China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, one of the greatest economic disasters of all time. After those Biden calamities, the United States lost one in four manufacturing jobs. We laid off workers in Michigan, Ohio, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, and many other states. They did not want to hear Biden’s hollow words of empathy. They wanted their jobs back.

As vice president, he supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have been a death sentence for the U.S. auto industry. He backed the horrendous South Korea trade deal, which took many jobs from our country, and which I’ve reversed and made a great deal for our country. He repeatedly supported mass amnesty for illegal immigrants. He voted for the Iraq war. He opposed the mission that took out Osama bin Laden. He opposed killing Suleimani, he oversaw the rise of ISIS, cheered the rise of China as a positive development for the world. Some positive development. That is why China supports Joe Biden and it desperately wants him to win. I can tell you that upon very good information.

China would own our country if Joe Biden got elected. Unlike Biden, I will hold them fully accountable for the tragedy that they caused all over the world — they caused. In recent months, our nation and the world has been hit by the once-in-a-century pandemic that China allowed to spread around the globe. They could have stopped it, but they allowed it to come out. We are grateful to be joined tonight by several of our incredible nurses and first responders. Please stand and accept our profound thanks and gratitude.



Many Americans, including me — I have sadly lost friends and cherished loved ones to this horrible disease. As one nation, we mourn, we grieve, and we hold in our hearts forever the memories of all of those lives that have been so tragically taken so unnecessary.

In their honor, we unite in their memory. We will overcome it. And when the China virus hit, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II, invoking the Defense Production Act. We produce the world’s largest supply of ventilators. Not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator.

Good job heading the task force by our great vice president — thank you very much. Please, please stand up.

We shipped hundreds of millions of masks, gloves and gowns to our frontline health care workers to protect our nation’s seniors. We rushed supplies, testing kits and personnel to nursing homes. We gave everything you can possibly give, and we’re are still giving it because we are taking care of our senior citizens.

Sign up to receive our On Politics newsletter, a daily guide to the political news cycle.
Sign Up
The Army Corps of Engineers built field hospitals, and the Navy deployed our great hospital ships. We developed from scratch the largest and most advanced testing system anywhere in the world. America has tested more than every country in Europe put together and more than every nation in the Western Hemisphere combined — think of that. We have conducted 40 million more tests then the next closest nation, which is India. We developed a wide array of effective treatments, including a powerful antibody treatment known as convalescent plasma. You saw that? On Sunday night when we announced it. That will save thousands and thousands of lives. Thanks to advancements, we have pioneered the fatality rates, and you look at it, and you look at the numbers, it has been reduced by 80 percent since April — 80 percent.

The United States has among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country anywhere in the world. The European Union’s case fatality rate is nearly three times higher than ours, but you don’t hear that. They do not write about that. They don’t want to write about that. They do not want you to know those things. Altogether, the nations of Europe have experienced a 30 percent greater increase in excess mortality than the United States. Think of that.

We enacted the largest package of financial relief in American history. Thanks to our Paycheck Protection Program, we have saved or supported more than 50 million American jobs. That’s one of the reasons we’re advancing so rapidly with our economy. Great job. As a result, we have seen the smallest economic contraction of any nation, and we are recovering at a much faster rate than anybody.



Over the past three months, we have gained over nine million jobs, and that is a record in the history of our country. Unfortunately, from the beginning, our opponents have shown themselves capable of nothing but a partisan ability to criticize.

When I took bold action to issue a travel ban on China — very early indeed — Joe called it hysterical and xenophobic. And then I introduced a ban on Europe, very early again. If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died. Instead of following the science, Joe Biden wants to inflict a painful shutdown on the entire country. His shutdown would inflict unthinkable and lasting harm on our nation’s children, families and citizens of all backgrounds. The cost of the Biden shutdown would be measured in increased drug overdoses, depression, alcohol addiction, suicides, heart attacks, economic devastation, job loss and much more. Joe Biden’s plan is not a solution to the virus, but rather it’s a surrender to the virus.

My administration has a very different approach. To save as many lives as possible we are focusing on the science, the facts and the data. We are aggressively sheltering those at highest risk, especially the elderly, allowing lower-risk Americans to safely return to work and to school, and we want to see so many of those great states be opened by Democrats. We want them to be open. They have to be open. They have to get back to work. They have to get back to work, and they have to get back to school.

Most importantly, we are marshaling America’s scientific genius to produce a vaccine in record time. Under Operation Warp Speed, we have three different vaccines in the final stage of trials right now, years ahead of what has been achieved before. Nobody thought it could be done this fast. Normally it would be years, and we did it in a matter of a few months. We are producing them in advance so hundreds of millions of doses can be quickly available. We have a safe and effective vaccine this year, and together we will crush the virus.

At the Democrat convention, you barely heard a word about their agenda. But that is not because they don’t have one. It is because their agenda is the most extreme set of proposals ever put forward by a major party nominee.

Joe Biden may claim he is an ally of the light, but when it comes to his agenda, Biden wants to keep us completely in the dark. He doesn’t have a clue. He has pledged a $4 trillion tax hike on almost all American families, which would totally collapse our rapidly improving economy, and once again record stock markets that we have right now will also collapse. That means your 401(k)s. That means all of the stocks that you have.

On the other hand, just as I did in my first term, I will cut taxes even further for hardworking moms and dads. I will not raise taxes; I will cut them, and very substantially.And we will also provide tax credits to bring jobs out of China back to America, and we will impose tariffs on any company that leaves America to produce jobs overseas. We will make sure our companies and jobs stay in our country, as I’ve already been doing for quite some time, if you have noticed. Joe Biden’s agenda is made in China. My agenda is made in the U.S.A.


Biden has promised to abolish the production of American oil, coal, shale and natural gas, laying waste to the economies of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Texas, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Colorado and New Mexico — destroying those states, absolutely destroying those states, and others.

Millions of jobs will be lost, and energy prices will soar. These same policies led to crippling power outages in California just last week. Everybody saw that. Tremendous power outage. Nobody’s seen anything like it, but we saw it last week in California. How can Joe Biden claim to be an ally of the light when his own party can’t even keep the lights on?

Joe Biden’s campaign has even published a 110-page policy platform. You can’t get away from this. Co-authored with far-left senator crazy Bernie Sanders. The Biden-Bernie manifesto calls for suspending all removals of illegal aliens, implementing nationwide catch and release, providing illegal aliens with free taxpayer-funded lawyers. Everybody gets a lawyer. Come over to our country — everybody has a lawyer. We have a lawyer for you. That’s is all we need is more lawyers.

Joe Biden recently raised his hand on the debate stage and promised he was going to give it away — your health care dollars — to illegal immigrants, which will bring massive numbers of immigrants into our country. Massive numbers will pour into our country in order to get all the goodies that they want to give. Education, health care, everything.

He also supports deadly sanctuary cities that protect criminal aliens. He promised to end national security travel bans from jihadist nations, and he pledged to increase refugee admissions by 700 percent.

This is in the manifesto.

The Biden plan would eliminate America’s borders in the middle of a global pandemic, and he is even talking about taking the wall down. How about that?

Biden also vowed to oppose school choice and close all charter schools, ripping away the ladder of opportunity for Black and Hispanic children. In a second term, I will expand charter schools and provide school choice to every family in America. And we will always treat our teachers with the tremendous respect that they deserve. Great people. Great, great people.



Joe Biden claims he has empathy for the vulnerable, yet the party he leads supports the extreme late-term abortion of defenseless babies, right up until the moment of birth. Democrat leaders talk about moral decency, but they have no problem with stopping a baby’s beating heart in the ninth month of pregnancy. Democrat politicians refuse to protect innocent life, and then they lecture us about morality and saving America’s soul. Tonight, we proudly declare that all children, born and unborn, have a God-given right to life.

During the Democrat convention, the words “under God” were removed from the Pledge of Allegiance. Not once, but twice. We will never do that. But the fact is, this is where they are coming from. Like it or not, this is where they are coming from. If the left gains power, they will demolish the suburbs, confiscate your guns, and appoint justices who will wipe away your second amendment and other constitutional freedoms.

Biden is a Trojan horse for socialism. If Joe Biden doesn’t have the strength to stand up to wild eyed Marxists like Bernie Sanders and his fellow radicals, and there are many, there are many many, we see them all the time. It is incredible, actually. Then how is he ever going to stand up for you? He’s not.

The most dangerous aspect of the Biden platform is the attack on public safety. The Biden-Bernie manifesto calls for abolishing cash bail, immediately releasing 400,000 criminals onto the streets and into your neighborhoods. When asked if he supports cutting police funding, Joe Biden replied, yes, absolutely. When Congresswoman Ilhan Omar called the Minneapolis Police Department “a cancer that is rotten to the root,” Biden would not disavow her support and reject her endorsement. He proudly displayed it shortly later on his website. Displayed it in big letters.

Make no mistake, if you give power to Joe Biden, the radical left will defund police departments all across America. They will pass federal legislation to reduce law enforcement nationwide. They will make every city look like Democrat-run Portland, Oregon.

No one will be safe in Biden’s America. My administration will always stand with the men and women of law enforcement.

Every day, police officers risk their lives to keep us safe, and every year many sacrifice their lives in the line of duty. One of these incredible Americans was Detective Miosotis Familia. She was part of a team of American heroes called the NYPD, or New York’s finest, who I was very proud to get their endorsement just the other day. Great people.



If they were allowed to do their job, you’d have no crime in New York. Rudy Giuliani knows that better than anybody. Thank you, Rudy.

Three years ago on the Fourth of July weekend, Detective Familia was on duty in her vehicle when she was ambushed just after midnight and murdered by a monster who hated her purely for wearing the badge. Detective Familia was a single mom. She recently asked for the night shift so she could spend more time with her kids.

Two years ago, I stood in front of the U.S. Capitol alongside those beautiful children and held their grandmother’s hand as they mourned their terrible loss. And we honored Detective Familia’s extraordinary life. It was extraordinary. Detective Familia’s three children are with us this evening. Genesis, Peter, Delilah, we are so grateful to have you here tonight. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

I promise you that we will treasure your mom in our memories forever. We must remember that the overwhelming majority of police officers in this country, and that’s the overwhelming majority, are noble, courageous, and honorable. We have to give law enforcement, our police, back their power.

They are afraid to act. They are afraid to lose their pension. They are afraid to lose their jobs. And by being afraid, they are not able to do the job that they so desperately want to do for you. And those who suffer most are the great people who they protect and who they want to protect at an even higher level.

When there is police misconduct, the justice system must hold wrongdoers fully and completely accountable, and it will. But when we can never have a situation where things are going on as they are today, we must never allow mob rule. We can never allow mob rule.

In the strongest possible terms, the Republican Party condemns the rioting, looting, arson, and violence we have seen in Democrat-run cities all, like Kenosha, Minneapolis, Portland, Chicago, and New York, and many others, Democrat-run.



There is violence and danger in the streets of many Democrat-run cities throughout America. This problem could easily be fixed if they wanted to. Just call, we’re ready to go in. We will take care of your problem in a matter of hours. Just call. We have to wait for the call.It is too bad we have to, but we have to wait for the call.

We must always have law and order. All federal crimes are being investigated, prosecuted and punished to the fullest extent of the law.

When the anarchists started ripping down our statues and monuments right outside, I signed an order immediately, 10 years in prison, and it was a miracle. It all stopped. No more statues.They said, that’s just too long as they looked as a statue.I think we’ll rip it down. Then they said, ‘10 years in prison? I think that is too long. Let’s go home.’

During their convention, Joe Biden and his supporters remained completely silent about the rioters and criminals spreading mayhem in Democrat-run cities. They never even mentioned it during their entire convention. Never once mentioned. Now, they are starting to mention it because their poll numbers are going down like a rock in water.

It is too late, Joe. In the face of left-wing anarchy and mayhem in Minneapolis, Chicago, and others, Joe Biden’s campaign did not condemn it. They donated to it. At least 13 members of Joe Biden’s campaign have donated to a fund to bailout vandals, arsons and anarchists, looters and rioters from jail.

Here tonight is the grieving family of retired police Capt. David Dorn, a 38-year veteran of the St. Louis Police Department, a great man and a highly respected man by all. In June, Captain Dorn was shot and killed as he tried to protect a store from rioters and looters. Or as the Democrats would call them, peaceful protesters. They call them peaceful protesters.

We are honored to be joined tonight by his wonderful wife and beloved family members. To each of you, we will never forget the heroic legacy of Capt. David Dorn. Thank you very much for being here.


Thank you very much. Great man.

As long as I am president, we will defend the absolute right of every American citizen to live in security, dignity and peace. If the Democrat Party wants to stand with anarchists, agitators, rioters, looters, and flag burners, that is up to them. But I as your president will not be part of it. The Republican Party will remain the voice of the patriotic heroes who keep America safe and salute the American flag.

Last year, over 1,000 African-Americans were murdered as a result of violent crime in just four Democrat-run cities. The top 10 most dangerous cities in the country are run by Democrats and have been for many decades. Thousands more African-Americans are victim and victims of violent crime in these communities. Joe Biden and the left ignore these American victims. I never will. If the radical left takes power, they will apply their disastrous policies to every town, city, and suburban America.

Imagine if the so-called peaceful demonstrators in the streets were in charge of every lever of power in the U.S. government. Just think of that. Liberal politicians claim to be concerned about the strength of American institutions, but who exactly is attacking them? Who is hiring the radical professors, judges, and prosecutors? Who is trying to abolish immigration enforcement and establish speech codes designed to muzzle dissent? In every case, the attacks on American institutions are being waged by radical left. Always remember, they are coming after me because I am fighting for you. That is what is happening. It has been going on from before I even got elected.

And remember this, they spied on my campaign and they got caught. Let’s see now what happens.

We must reclaim our Independence from the left’s repressive mandates. Americans are exhausted, trying to keep up with the latest lists of approved words and phrases, and the ever more restrictive political decrees.

Many things have a different name now, and the rules are constantly changing. The goal of cancel culture is to make Americans live in fear of being fired, expelled, shamed, humiliated, and driven from society as we know it. The far-left wants to coerce you into saying what you know to be false and scare you out of saying what you know to be true. Very sad. But on November 3, you can send them a very thundering message they will never forget.

Joe Biden is weak. He takes his marching orders from liberal hypocrites who drive their cities into the ground while fleeing from the scene of the wreckage. The same liberals want to eliminate school choice while they enroll their children into the finest private schools in the land. They want to open the borders while living in walled off compounds and communities and the best neighborhoods in the world. They want to defund the police while they have armed guards for themselves. This November, we must turn the page forever on this failed political class.

The fact is, I am here. What is the name of that building? But I’ll say it differently, the fact is, we are here and they are not. To me, one of the most beautiful buildings anywhere in the world is not a building, it is a home, as far as I am concerned. It’s not even a house, it is a home. Wonderful place with an incredible history. But it is all because of you. Together, we will write the next chapter of the great American story.



Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. We will expand opportunity zones. Thank you, Tim Scott.

Bring home our medical supply chains, and we end our resilience for bad things, we will go right after China. We will not rely on them one bit. We are taking our business out of China. We are bringing it home. We want our business to come home.

We will continue to reduce taxes and regulations at levels not seen before. We will create 10 million jobs in the next 10 months. And it will be higher than that. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities. We will ban deadly sanctuary cities and ensure federal health care is protected for American citizens, not for illegal aliens.

We will have strong borders. And I’ve said for years, without borders, we don’t have a country. We don’t have a country. Strike down terrorists who threaten our people and keep America out of endless and costly foreign wars. We will appoint prosecutors, judges, justices who believe in enforcing the law, not enforcing their own political agenda. Which is illegal.

We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. We will uphold your religious liberty and defend your second amendment right to keep and bear arms. And if we don’t win, your second amendment doesn’t have a chance, I can tell you that. I have totally protected it.

We will protect Medicare and Social Security. We will always and very strongly protect patients with pre-existing conditions, and that is a pledge from the entire Republican Party. Thank you.

We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, and further reduce the cost of prescription drugs and health insurance premiums, they are coming way down. We will greatly expand energy development, continuing to remain the number one in the world, and keep America energy independent.



And for those of you that still drive a car, look how low your gasoline bill is. You haven’t seen that in a long time.

We will win the race to 5G and build the world’s best cyber and missile defense, already under construction. We will fully restore patriotic education to our schools and always protect — we will always, always protect free speech on college campuses. And we put a very big penalty in if they do anything having to do with your free speech. Colleges have to pay a tremendous, tremendous financial penalty. Again, it is amazing how open they have been lately.

We will launch a new age of American ambition in space. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to plant its beautiful flag on Mars.

This is the unifying national agenda that will bring our country together. So tonight, I say to all Americans, this is the most important election in the history of our country. There has never been such a difference between two parties or two individuals in ideology, philosophy, or vision than there is right now.

Our opponents believe that America is a depraved nation. We want our sons and daughters to know the truth. America is the greatest and most exceptional nation in the history of the world. Our country wasn’t built by cancel culture, speech codes, and crushing conformity. We are not a nation of timid spirits. We are a nation of fierce, proud, and independent American patriots. We are a nation of pilgrims, pioneers, adventurers, explorers, and trailblazers who refuse to be tied down, held back, or in any way reigned in. Americans have steel in their spines, grit in their souls, and fire in their hearts. There is no one like us on Earth. I want every child in America to know that you are part of the most exciting and incredible adventure in human history. No matter where your family comes from, no matter your background in America, anyone can rise with hard work, devotion, and drive. You can reach any goal and achieve every ambition.

Our American ancestors sailed across the perilous ocean to build a new life on a new continent. They braved the freezing winters, crossed the raging rivers, scaled the rocky peaks, trekked the dangerous forests, and worked from dawn till dusk. These pioneers didn’t have money. They didn’t have fame. But they had each other. They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God. When opportunity beckoned, they picked up their bibles, packed up their belongings, climbed into their covered wagons, and set out West for the next adventure.

Ranchers and miners, cowboys and sheriffs, farmers and settlers. They pressed on past the Mississippi to stake a claim in the wild frontier. Legends were born. Wyatt Earp, Annie Oakley, Davy Crockett, and Buffalo Bill. Americans built their beautiful homesteads on the open range. Soon, they had churches and communities, then towns, and with time, great centers of industry and commerce.



That is who they were. Americans build their future, we don’t tear down our past. We are the nation that won a revolution, toppled tyranny and fascism, and delivered millions into freedom. We laid down the railroads, built the great ships, raised up the skyscrapers, revolutionized industry, and sparked a new age of scientific discovery. We set the trends in art and music, radio and film, sport and literature. And we did it with style and confidence and flair because that is who we are.

Whenever our way of life was threatened, our heroes answered the call, from Yorktown to Gettysburg, from Normandy to Iwo Jima. American patriots raced into cannon blasts, bullets, and bayonets to rescue American liberty. They had no fear, but America did not stop there. We looked into the sky and kept pressing onward.

We built a 6 million pound rocket and launched it thousands of miles into space. We did it so two brave patriots could stand tall and salute our wondrous American flag planted on the face of the moon.

For America, nothing is impossible.

Over the next four years, we will prove worthy of this magnificent legacy. We will reach stunning new heights, and we will show the world that for America there is a dream, and it is not beyond your reach. Together, we are unstoppable. Together, we are unbeatable. Because together, we are the proud citizens of the United States of America.

On November 3, we will make America safer. We will make America stronger. We will make America prouder. And we will make America greater than ever before. I am very proud to be the nominee of the Republican Party.

I love you all. God bless you, and God bless America.
So thank you Pennsylvania, very much. I’m thrilled to be in Latrobe, the home of the late, great, my friend, Arnold Palmer. What a great guy he was. What a great guy. Thank you very much. 61 days from now, we’re going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and we are going to win four more years in the White House. Joe Biden wants to surrender your jobs to China. You know that. His son walked out with a lot of money for doing nothing. He wants to surrender your nation to the radical left wing mob. He’s trying to change now. We say that’s not working because we’re going up and he’s dropping like a rock in water.

And before the China virus, this election was over. Now I had to go back to work and we’ve done a great job on it. We don’t get the credit. We don’t get the credit. We made a lot of governors look very good. But I will keep your jobs in America, and I’ll bring rioters, looters, violent extremists, anarchists, we will bring them to justice. That’s what we’re doing right now. We have over 400 right now under arrest. These are bad people.

Over the last three and a half years, we’ve secured America’s borders, fixed our broken trade deals, rebuilt the United States military, obliterated the ISIS caliphate 100%, secured American energy independence, and built the single greatest economy in the history of the world, and now we’re going to do it again. Have to do it again. Have to do it again. Got to do it again.

And it’s happening. You see what’s happening. Job numbers, retail sale numbers, they’re all at records. It’s happening. It’s happening very fast. It’s actually happening in a super V, not a V. It’s a super V and you’ll see that, and big numbers are coming out and have come out, and just watch your set or watch your newspaper. Read your newspaper. You’re seeing numbers that, congressmen, we haven’t seen those numbers ever before, actually. We’ve never seen them. And by the way, we have record stock markets. We have record everything. You’re going to have an incredible economic year next year. Your stocks are going up. Your 401(k)s are through the roof.

I had a little pause today. People wanted to take some profits and probably somebody said something stupid along the way. But the stock market’s at record levels. Think of it. In the hopefully rounding the turn on the pandemic, we’re rounding that turn, and vaccines are coming along great. The job that they’ve done, the doctors, everybody else, we’re years ahead of schedule. Anybody else’s President, you wouldn’t be talking about vaccines for two or three years from now. I’ll tell you right now. That I can tell you.

Biden will never be able to protect your jobs or your family. He is a puppet of the socialists, Marxists, and the cop hating extremists. And they are cop hating. And we love our law enforcement. We love our law enforcement. And by the way, I don’t know if you saw this, if there’s any way of you seeing it, we have thousands of people behind this hangar, thousands, and we’re trying to get them in. And I’d love to get them in. I mean, it’s an airport. Let them go to the runways. Okay? Let them in. I mean, literally there, we landed. I actually thought that was the crowd. We’re doing the hanger thing now because the arenas can’t do it because of the pandemic for a while, a little while. But in certain ways, I like this better. I don’t have to travel. I get off the plane. I make a speech. I get the hell out of here.

No, these are great. Do you remember the last days before the campaign? I’d do a lot of them a day. Get off that plane. It was a little different plane. It was black and white instead of the blue and white. But we had some time. And that was an important day and that was an important year, 2016. But I will tell you, the election that we have coming up is the single most important election in the history of this country. And we had a level of enthusiasm, I mean, even look today. With all going on, look at the kind of crowds we have.

But we had record enthusiasm in 2016. By the way, was that greatest evening ever? November. And now it’s going to be November 3rd, and we’ll keep it going and we’ll get it all like a tree. You move that tree. It takes a little while to plant, your tax cuts. They’re going to raise your taxes. They’re going to take away your guns. Really, if you look. And you know, they’ll criticize me for saying this, the fake news media, which is back there, with their fake polls. The same as last year. We could just put it all on tape. The fake polls, the fake everything. You know, they’re called suppression polls. They’re meant to make you depressed. Are you depressed? You don’t look depressed. We have the real numbers. We’re leading everywhere. We are leading everywhere. I’ll tell you.

I think we’re way ahead of what we were four years ago, and there’s far more enthusiasm. Our base is bigger. It’s stronger. And we’ve done the greatest job. Again, if we didn’t get hit by the plague from China, between us, I would have canceled, Mr. Congressman, most of the rallies. I wouldn’t have needed a rally. That’s a little bit unfair, but that’s okay. That’s what China’s done to our nation. They’ve screwed us for a long time on a lot of different ways. Never has anybody ripped off our nation like China, and I’ve taken in billions and billions of dollars. We never took in 25 cents from China. And I gave $28 billion, right, $28 billion to the farmers because they were targeted unfairly by China. And our farmers are very unhappy.

I don’t think we have too many farmers in this wonderful Pennsylvania town. I know we have a lot of boilermakers over there. We got a lot of boilermakers, I’ll be talking about them. Look at those guys. Nobody going to mess with them. I’ll tell you. We’re going to be talking about them in a minute.

But for the entire summer, Biden was silent as far left rioters viciously attacked law enforcement in Democrat run cities all, burned down businesses, terrorized civilians, and just recently marched through the streets chanting, “Death to America.” This is what we have. Death to America.

And by the way, we could end it like immediately. You saw what we did in Wisconsin. It ended. It took a while for the governor. You know, they have to ask us in. It’s like, otherwise we have to do something much bigger and it’s totally unnecessary. The National Guard is fantastic. I went to see them two days ago. Biden went there today. There was nobody there. There was nobody there. He was a little late. I was going to say, “Hey, listen, we ended that problem.” But we could end it in Portland. Wise guys in Portland. Anarchists. They’re agitators. They’re looters. I’ll tell you we could end it in Portland in a half an hour.

We did it in Seattle. We told them we’re coming in. You either end it or were coming in. Congressman, we were going in the next day. We were all set. I was actually disappointed, to be honest. They ended it in Seattle. They took over 20% of the city. Do you believe this? And the mayor said, “No, it’s going to be a summer of love.” These people are crazy. So we end them very quickly. We end them very quickly. And now what we’re doing is we’re holding back funds for cities that don’t know what they’re doing, where they allow crime to run rampant.

And we put a 10 year prison sentence at anybody that knocks down a statue. I took out an old ordinance, a very old one, because today in Congress, you don’t get things like that today. They think that you should just have no cash bail. They do the no cash bail. You kill somebody. There’s no bail. Don’t worry about it. Go out. But I took out an old ordinance. I gave a new executive order. It says 10 years in prison. And amazingly, amazingly, that was three and a half months ago. And they were having a big march on Washington, march elsewhere, and amazingly, that was the end of the statues coming down. No statutes.

And we’re actually prosecuting people for having done it. We made it retroactive to the beginning. Terrible. Terrible. And by the way, the state statues and monuments, they have to do the same thing. It’s real easy. But the rioters that want Biden to win, they want him to win because their agenda, it’s what they want. It’s the craziest thing I’ve ever seen. They both want to cut funding for police. They want to end that cash bail. They want to hire far left prosecutors and judges, and let the criminals run wild. The radical left District Attorney in Portland, Mike Schmidt, his name is, has released hundreds of rioters that announced that anyone arrested for interfering with police officers, disorderly conduct, criminal trespass, rioting, and other offenses will not be prosecuted under any circumstance. Oh, it’s worse. It’s worse.

You have somebody in Philadelphia who’s worse, right? Worse. In his manifesto with Bernie Sanders, that’s what it is, Biden agreed to all these things. You notice now, “No, no. I never said about fracking. I never said.” If you don’t do fracking in Pennsylvania, 900,000 jobs and your energy bills will triple. Other than that, I don’t think you should have it. Okay? No, but he said in the manifesto, plus he said many times, we put on the clip yesterday where he, no fracking, no this, no that, I mean, no guns. How about guns? No guns. No second amendment.

Biden has pledged to a point prosecutors who extend these insane far left policies nationwide. That’s what he’s done. That’s called the manifesto. He agreed to all this stuff. The craziest thing, you’re supposed to bring it to the right. He actually brought it further left. Bernie never dreamt that this was possible, crazy Bernie. Do you know crazy Bernie? I had a lot of his voters come to me four years ago, a big percentage. You know why? Because I agree with him and he agrees with me on one thing, trade. The trade. Because he knew that other countries are ripping us off and so did I. Nobody else got it. Especially Biden never got it. He never got it. Still doesn’t get it. Now he really gets nothing. I tell you. He didn’t get it in prime time. Now he really doesn’t get it.

But it’s okay for them to make every city look just like Portland which is a disaster. And again, we could clean it up. We just go right through it. 5,000, 10,000, right through it. These guys are tough. They’re smart. And they love our country. They love our country. We’ll clean it up in one half hour. It’ll be over.

Did you see this radical left? Mayor Wheeler, his name is. The radical left mayor. They chased him, Mike. They chased him out of his home last night. And all he does is be nice to them because they don’t understand nice. They only understand one thing: strength. They don’t understand. Nice. They chased him out of his home. Unbelievable. Biden’s plan is to appease the domestic terrorist. And my plan is to arrest them and prosecute them.

And I will always defend law abiding citizens. That’s why the rioters are voting for Biden and the law enforcement people, you know, we have it from everybody. We just got the sheriffs in Florida, all of them, all of them. We got Ohio. We got Texas. We got North Carolina. We got South Carolina. We got everybody. I see Rick Perry right there. Rick Perry, what are you doing here, Rick? Rick Perry, one of the greats. But they’re all voting for me.

This election is about safety and this election is about jobs. Today, I’m delighted to accept a very, very special endorsement from people I like. Sort of grew up with these people. I don’t know what it is, the relationship we have with all of us, with all of us. What I’m endorsing, I’m getting an endorsement tonight from some very, very special people. They work hard. They do great. We really put them back to work because this state was in trouble. At last year, you had the single greatest economic year in the history of your whole operation, right? Of your whole operation. You’ve never had anything like that. This has been your greatest. This has been prior to the plague coming in. It’s been the Commonwealth’s greatest. Can we ever call the Commonwealth a state? You have two places. But you always have to say, well, wait a minute. Is this one a Commonwealth? Two places. You know what the other place is? Name it. Huh? That’s right. How did you know that, Congressmen? Huh?

But this Commonwealth, it’s a great Commonwealth. It’s a great place. And the boilermakers, local union, it’s Local 154 of the boilermakers. They chartered in Pittsburgh 125 years ago. None of you were around to see it, and it now represents members in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia. And I want to thank John Hughes and the boilermakers here today. It’s a great honor to have you. Where’s John? Where the hell is John? Stand up, John. John, we appreciate it. We appreciate it.

Do you know why John is the head? You know why? Because look, he’s got the worst location. I say, “Where’s John?” I’m looking in the front row. Put up your hand, John. Look at that guy. He’s great. You’ve got my vote, John. Hey, boilermakers, thank you. What a job you do. You’re the heart of this country. You really are. Thank you very much. That’s a great endorsement. That’s a great endorsement.

Joe Biden spent the last 47 years shipping Pennsylvania jobs to China and foreign nations. And I’ve spent the last four years bringing them back home and we’re bringing them back home. Bringing a lot of things back home. I ended the last administration’s eight year pure war on Pennsylvania oil, and coal, and fracking. If you look at the natural gas, what they’ve done to this state, what they were doing to this state. It was sort of easy. I just opened it up and I said, “Do it.” And the investment put into Pennsylvania, the investment put into the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has been record setting. But again, you had the greatest year you’ve ever had last year prior to the virus. You’re going to be set. Now with what we’re doing, I believe that this next quarter, which will be announced, interestingly, just prior to the election, so I’m putting myself on the line, but I know what’s going to happen. The numbers are going to be great. And next year is going to be one of the greatest years not only for Pennsylvania, but for the entire country.

So Joe Hiden, we have a new one, Joe Hiden. We call him Joe Hiden. I have all. What do you like better? What do you like better? We got a number. Let’s do a little poll. Can we do a poll? I saved myself so much money. You know, I saved myself so much money. We do these polls with thousands, and those people are coming in from the back, are they not? Yes? They’re coming in. I’m telling you wouldn’t have believed it. I’m landing. I wasn’t waving at you. I was waving at them. There’s more. But I do these polls. Right? And it’s like a perfect poll. Do you ever see the companies? You give them a million bucks and they do a poll, like 78 people were polled. Now you’ve got thousands of people.

So tell me. What’s your feeling, first of all in the name You like MAGA, Make America Great Again? Yes? Oh, you are the one. You are a man. I made you famous today. You said the nicest things about me. Thank you. Did you see him on television today? I think you’re great. I think you’re great. Thank you. No, he called me a great Christian and a great Christian leader. Thank you. But he did say I wasn’t perfect, but that’s okay. I said thank you, anyway. Right? No, that was really great. That was really great. Biden-

No that was really great. That was really great. But if you look at it, the things they’ve done, we’re going to go through a couple of different polls as we go along because I love the people saying do this or do that. But one of the things I got you out of is this thing sounds so good but it’s so bad. It’s a rip off of our country. The so-called Paris Climate Accord. It’s a disaster, a death sentence. It’s a death sentence for your energy jobs. I took it out. I withdrew from that calamity. Biden pledged to reinstate it. It’s going to cost you billions and billions of dollars. You know what it really is? It’s a way of really taking advantage of the United States. This is what it is. Last year I visited the Shell Petrochemical Plant in Beaver County. Anybody ever hear of Beaver County?

The largest investment in your state’s history, all made possible by our pro-energy policies. Biden would wipe out that entire industry killing the jobs of more than 600,000 Pennsylvania workers. It’s probably 940,000 they say. Think of that. Also, prices and everything else. Now Biden today came out and said, “No, no, fracking’s okay, it’s okay? Did you see that? Fracking’s okay. Because he was getting killed. And now we came out in favor of law enforcement. Look at all these handsome cops here. And a beautiful cop.
No, but how can anybody believe it? He’s totally against, at his speech and at the DNC, where we got much higher numbers than they did, but they put out that they did, they’ll say anything. We got much higher by millions and millions of people. We had a great… Did we have a great convention? Right? We had a… Here’s my guy. Good job you did. But we had a great convention and it’s been a really terrific. I made a speech at Mount Rushmore and since that speech, our numbers have been up, up, up like a rocket, like a beautiful rocket, the Mount Rushmore speech. I said we’re getting hit by this pandemic very unfairly in the sense that we’ve done such a good job with the ventilators, all of the things, you’ve heard it a thousand times, and we have to get back. And I made a speech in really a great place, South Dakota, but it was Mount Rushmore. They want to blow it up. They want to take off my [inaudible 00:28:35]. If you would see how beautiful, if you would see how beautiful this is, it was like this perfect evening, the sun was setting, the faces of these great, great majestic heroes of our country, right? Heroes of our country. And they want to blow Mount Rushmore. But how about this one? The Democrats yesterday came out with a plan. Did you see it? Now, they’re the DC Democrats. They want to change the name of the Washington Monument, perhaps take it down.

Thomas Jefferson, pretty good Thomas Jefferson, right? You could forget about ever hearing that name again. Abraham Lincoln, you could forget about it. They want to take down all statues, all monuments in Washington. We have some of your greatest people right here. Let me not even talk to the congressmen. The heck with the Congressman, the boiler makers. How do you like? How do you like the idea of taking down our statues to our great George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, Andrew Jackson, all of them? I don’t think the boiler makers. You’ll do a ring around Washington right? Along with Christopher Columbus. He’s in big trouble I’ll tell you. Except there was one, there was a group of great Italians in New York, they tried to take down.

They tried to take down Christopher Columbus statue in New York. You saw what happened, right? These Italians formed a little circle. They said, “Come on.” The agitators decided to leave. “Let’s get out of here darling.” They protected Christopher Columbus. The Italians, now the Italians aren’t big on taking down Christopher Columbus. You take down those statues you can forget about the Italian vote. Do we agree? But they protected it. When asked at the debate if there would be any place for fossil fuels, including coal, and fracking, and natural gas, and so many things that really fire up these big plants where many of you work, and they produce just millions and millions of jobs throughout our country, Biden said, “No, we would absolutely not allow anything like that. We would make sure it’s totally eliminated.” That’s what he said. He said, “We would make sure it’s totally eliminated or eliminated.” Now he’s coming and saying, “This isn’t working too well. This isn’t working.”

And I made a speech a week ago in Texas. We had crowds that were unbelievable, on the highways, you can’t get in, but the highways, it’s like incredible. You could sell your ticket tonight for a lot of money, go to eBay. Even as a used ticket, you could probably sell. But you go down the highways and you see it, and I was thinking of Texas, I’m making a speech in front of obviously people that like oil, they like God, and you know what else they like, they like their Second Amendment, right? So think about it. So whether it’s Pennsylvania, or Texas, or Oklahoma, or North Dakota, or any place, you take a look at this, right? And no oil, no guns, no God. I don’t think George Washington running with Abraham Lincoln as his VP, he’ll pick Abraham Lincoln as VP is going to win in Texas, or in Pennsylvania, or any place else with those three things eliminated.

That’s what they want to do. They want to take away your Second Amendment. If I weren’t president, you would either have an obliterated Second Amendment or it would be gone entirely. I am standing between them and your Second Amendment. And that’s it. That’s it. They know.

We put Baido in charge of guns. Baido is in charge, he wants to get rid of everything. Baido, that’s a beauty. Remember he said, “I was born for this.” Anybody that says they’re born for this. Remember Baido? He was on the cover of a magazine, I won’t mention the magazine, they’re back there. It’s a total phony magazine. But he was on the cover of the magazine. And he said, “I was born to run for president.” He was born for it. I was born. Anybody that gets that character. That was when he was doing well. Since then he’s cratered. Ever since he made that statement, he’s looked very bad. But take a look at what he says about guns, and he got put in charge of guns. So I guess Biden pretty soon he’s going to be coming out saying, “No, no. I never said that.”

Check out all of the statements he’s made on everything and now he’s going the opposite way, but he’s agreed to the manifesto entirely so maybe he’ll do that. And then he figures later on, he’ll go. But everything he said is right, because he has no control over what’s happening. The radical left has captured the party. They even elected a person that nobody ever heard of, a senator, it’s been a while, against a young, good looking Kennedy by 10 points in Massachusetts. Did you know Kennedy lost in Massachusetts? You know why? Because he wasn’t a radical left. He was like a semi-normal person, just slightly left. No, but think of it. This is what’s happened. And this is really what’s happened. If you’re not a radical lefty, meaning guns, meaning fossil fuels, they want wind, wind. To make the windmill, which are made mostly in China, and in Germany, by the way, to make it, so much emission is let out, that is more than you can ever save.

It’s just the craziest thing. Also, I am truly an environmentalist, but you have to understand. When we do things and they don’t, and we clean, and it’s very expensive to do that and they don’t, and we have this massive planet, and China, India, Russia, Germany, all these places, it’s fuming up and we’re doing our job and beautiful. No, they have to do it also. Otherwise, it just doesn’t work the way it’s supposed to. They want to ban straws. Has anybody ever tried those paper straws? They are not working too good. Right? They want to ban straws, I said, well, I’ve had a couple of meals at McDonald’s, et cetera over the years, right? Wendy’s, a friend of mine owns Wendy’s, I’ll give it a plug, right? Burger King. So they want to ban straws. I said, “Oh really? What about the carton? What about the plate? What about the knives and the spoons that are plastic?” Oh, they’re okay, but the straws we got ban. Has anybody ever tried, seriously, the new straw, it’s made out of paper, right? It disintegrates as you drink and if you have a nice tie like this tie, this would have no chance. By the time you get finished, the straw is totally disintegrated. Does anybody walk around with a plastic straw? Because it’s that bad. You whip it out, boom, boom. You never had to do that. When asked whether he would be willing to destroy the jobs of hundreds of thousands of blue collar workers to push his anti-energy agenda, you know what the answer is, right? It’s the Green New Deal, right? This Green New Deal. This was made up by people that don’t get it. Either that or people that just don’t like our country very much. But Biden replied yes, he’ll get rid of those jobs. And he famously told a voter, “I want you to look in my eyes,” when he’s not wearing the mask because I’ve never seen a man that liked their mask. Look, I’m all for it, we have a big weekend, distance on the weekend, and all of that stuff, and wear your mask when you’re close together in particular, and wash your hands, all those things. We have Labor Day Weekend coming up. But did you ever see a man that likes a mask as much as him? And then he makes a speech and he always has it, not always, but a lot of times he has it hanging down. Because you know what? It gives him a feeling of security.

If I were a psychiatrist, right? I’d say, “This guy’s got some big issues.” Hanging down. Hanging down. Congressman, give me your mask. I want to have it hanging from my ear. I don’t want to touch your damn mask. Mike I’ll never touch your mask. No, but the new one is, I went for a physical, the doctor said to me, “Sir would you like to go over to Walter Reed? It’s incredible.” By the way, the job they do on people that have been just really hurt, our heroes. The job they do is incredible. “Sir would you like to go over and do a physical? You have some time.” You know why I had time? Some deal, oh, it was China. I decided not to see China because I didn’t like the way they were doing business, okay? Does that make sense?

So the doctor, White House doctor, highly respected, Sean, Sean Conley, “Sir would you like to go over and do your physical, or do a piece of it, or finish it?” or whatever it was, but do a physic. I said, “I don’t know. I’m not in love with the idea.” “Well, if you do it, you don’t have to do…” “Okay. Let’s go. Come on.” So we went, we went, and we’re driving. Now you have to understand, they’re like a hundred cars. You see what happens here. It’s like the plane times 50. So the cars are driving all over to about a 20 minute drive and we get to the hospital, I get out. I was there probably for an hour and a half, two hours. And then yesterday I read that I had strokes. CNN, fake news CNN right there. No, it’s true. Mini strokes they called them.

I don’t know what a mini stroke is, but it’s not good. And there could be a day and I’ll admit, I said “Hey, it happens all of us.” Right? Except these young ones. It’s never going to happen to them. And I’d look at it at that, but you know what happens?

But nothing happened. So I went in, I did that part of the physical. The end result was he’s very healthy. They were very unhappy when they heard that result. What you don’t remember is when this took place, it was a long time ago. They just started up because they want to try and get me to be in Biden’s physical level. They view me as being somebody that’s, I go around, hey, last week, this week, Texas, North Carolina, Florida, South Carolina, back to Washington. Let’s go here, let’s go there, let’s go everywhere. Meetings all the time. I think I’ve answered more questions from these maniacs than any president in history. And mean questions. I watched Biden yesterday, so he hasn’t answered questions in what, two months or something. And yesterday he took a couple and they were set ups like I’ve never seen. One young woman who I think is there, one young woman is smiling, “Hi, Hi, Hi, Hi. I just like to ask you, I’m sorry to bother you with this question.” It’s the most incredible.

So the doctor wrote a letter saying, “No, this rumor is wrong.” And I don’t like, rumors like that. And by the way, if it were a fact, it’s fine, it should. I think it’s an important thing. But if it’s not true, my wife was like, she came to me, she said, “I think I would have known that.” I said, “Yeah, I think they would have known it too, because they drove back with me.” The press follows me, they have a special deal, and then they followed me and then we go in, we go out. But if you remember, last time, I go in, I spend a little time, a physical like we all have. Hopefully you have them. Good thing to have I guess, as long as they give you a good answer. If they give you a bad answer don’t bother, possibly too late. But I go in, I come out a couple of hours later I guess, whatever it is, it’s a short time later, I get into the car, the press sees me get into the car.

On my way home, I get a call from my wife, the First Lady who’s very popular. Do we like our First Lady? Very popular, great person, great woman. She said, “Darling, are you okay?” I go, “Why do you ask?” She said, “They’re reporting that you had a heart attack.” Now you have to understand I’m driving in a car, which is about what? Six cars in front of the press, because they have a big car. They’re a lot of them and we try and give them as little room as possible, make it uncomfortable. But they’re right behind me. So they know I got in and CNN reported that I had a heart attack. That was the same visit, and that didn’t work. No it’s unbelievable.

CNN reported I had a heart attack so my wife was concerned. I said, “No, not that I know of. And if I did, I think I’d be back there. No. I’ll be home in 15 minutes, darling. Thank you for caring.” It’s always nice. It’s always nice. She sounded relieved. That’s good. When your wife sounds relieved. But she said, ” I wonder how that happened. Why did they do that?” Because they’re fake news. So I go in and that rumor lasted for a little while, like a day or two. It lasted for a little while, no matter what I did. I’m in the same motorcade, I go in, and I go out. They know I’m in the motorcade, I actually have to report it, but I’m in the motorcade, and they said I had a… One of them said it was a massive heart attack. Think of it. Again, it could happen someday, okay? And when it does, I hope things work out. But they knew I’m in the motorcade and yet they reported it anyway because they fake news.

Now for the same visit, that was the stupidest thing. From now on, when I go for a physical or something or go to the hospital, announce it because this was a quick thing. The doctor, he got me in a lot of trouble. He’s a great doctor. I said, “No more surprise visits to the hospital where we do a little work because we have some time.” So now the same visit they started yesterday because some joker from the New York Times who’s a third grade reporter writes a book and he said, “The vice president was prepared to take over the reins because they thought the president was going to go,” I guess, under anesthesia. Do they still call it…? In the old days they called it anesthesia. It’s essentially the same thing. I don’t want to get into a situation like where Biden used a record player. Remember that? You go home, you turn on your record player. But the anesthesia. And I said, “How could that be?” So remember, this is the same visit, same visit.

They said heart attack a long time. All of a sudden out of this book. And he said, “Suffered mini strokes.” Now they get a letter from the White House doctor that said it’s totally false, totally false. But they still go with it, they go with it. And they know I’m in the group with them coming back. And I don’t know much about a mini stroke, but I assume Mr. Congressman, if you have a mini stroke, you’re not heading back to the White House, right? At least you’ll spend a couple of nights at that great hospital, right? So anyway, these are really dangerous people. They are so bad for our country. If we had honest press, it would be so great for the USA. It would be so great. They’re just a bunch of phony people. Not all of them. You have some very good ones, like about 10%. No, you have some very good ones, you have some great journalists, they know it’s phony stuff. They’re doing anything they can to get this sleepy guy into the White House and I just don’t think the public is going to fall for it.
I don’t think the public is going to fall for it. In his best days, 25, 30 years ago, he was weak. He was weak. As a Senator, he was weak. He was not known as being one of the smart ones and now it’s not exactly primetime, I can tell you that. I just want to announce tonight because we’re joined with some very, very special warriors and Dan Meuser, Dan, thank you very much. Great job you’re doing. Dan, Congressman. He’s a Congressman who have really been warriors for me. You really have been. Thank you very much Dan. Fred Keller, Fred, thank you. Great job, Fred. The great John Joyce. Great, thank you, John. Guy Reschenthaler. Do you know him? Guy Reschenthaler. what are you doing over there? What happened? You don’t get along with these guys? Oh, okay. That’s good. Now I understand. That’s good. Glenn Thompson. Great job, great job Glenn, really great. And a real good friend of mine, right from the beginning, right, Mike? We were in Pennsylvania and a friend of ours, a Congressman, longterm, right? From Kentucky. No, from actually Tennessee came up to us, I was getting ready to make a speech, and Tennessee is very early voting. Remember what he said? This was four years ago. He said, “I don’t know what’s happening in Pennsylvania. I don’t know what’s happening in the rest of the country. But if what’s going on in the rest of the country is like what’s going on in Tennessee?” He said, “They’re coming from the Hills, the roadsides, the rivers.” He said they’re coming, people that never really cared to vote, they’re great Americans, but they never wanted to vote for the people that they were seeing.

He said, “They’re miles long. They’ve got Trump here, Trump hats, Trump pins,” right? Tennessee. Duncan, Congressman Duncan, right? Remember that Mike? That was the first time. I mean, they said that they’d never seen anything like it. Tennessee has been incredible by the way. So Mike and I listened and we said, “I wonder what that’s all about.” But it is true. People that weren’t really political people, they’re coming in, and the deal here, like the Miss Universe, good old Miss Universe, right? Like this, they came with hats, they came with pins, they’re loaded with pins. One person had hundreds of pins. They never would’ve had a pin in their life, but they love the job that we’ve done and we’re going to do it even better in the next four years.

Another great friend of mine who’s a tough cookie and a great Congressman. But unfortunately he’s a former because he’s just, I don’t know., He’s just a special guy and really has a big, beautiful heart, Lou Barletta, Lou. You look good Lou. Why don’t you run again Lou? And a man who is tough. There’s this guy. You ever hear of a guy named Conor Lamb? He’s like a lamb. So we heard, because he’s in sort of a Trumpy area, right? And we heard that he’s going to be for Trump, but he’s going to be fighting for Trump. I saw some of his commercials, I thought he was a Republican, right? Except when he got to Washington, he voted with Pelosi a hundred percent of the time. Craziness. He voted with craziness. And so we thought, this Conor lamb guy, he even voted to impeach your president over nothing. Zero. Zero. And that’s very personal. When they do that, that’s personal. And I have to say congressmen, 196 to nothing they stuck with us and so did the Senate other than Romney. You can have Romney I think.


Romney couldn’t be elected dog catcher in Utah, right. Although he gave me a half a vote. It was 52 and a half to a half. That was Romney, what a [inaudible 00:49:41]. Remember he was walking with the Black Lives Matter saying, “Yes, I’m a member of Black Lives Matter.” Everyone said, “That’s nice. Wonderful.” He had a lot of mask on, I’ll tell you that. But we did a great job, it was an amazing thing. But this Conor Lamb was out there fighting it, and he shouldn’t have done that. And we have somebody that blows him away. He’s more of a hero, he’s tougher, he’s stronger, he’s smarter, he’s better looking, not that, that matters. Under the me too generation, I don’t talk about looks anymore. Looks don’t matter. Doesn’t make any difference. I don’t talk about looks. Me too. Me too generation. But I’ll tell you, this man is something special. He’s a real hero, a real tough guy, and he’ll never let you down, Sean Parnell.

Just remember that Conor lamb, and I remember, because he’s like a lamb, he’s like a little lamb. Weak, got a lot of weak people. We like strong people, don’t we? We like strong people. We need strong people right now. We have somebody else in the audience who served as my Secretary of Energy and he was incredible. He was the Governor of Texas for what? 12 years I think. Rick right? 12? Tell me. 14? 14 years he was. And he was an incredible governor, and he was an incredible secretary, and he’s been an incredible friend. Rick Perry everybody. There was nobody that got into the race tougher than Rick. What he said about me, I’ll never repeat again. Even my own family didn’t like me when he got finished. And when he decided that I would be the one, he got out and there’s nobody that’s said better things about me. But you’re great Rick, and you did a fantastic job. Every place you’ve been, you’ve been great. Thank you very much. Rick Perry. Thank you.

Hey Rick, how are we doing in Texas?

Hey Rick, how are we doing in Texas? We had a poll today in Georgia. They say, “Georgia’s going to be close.” Well this was a poll that hates Trump and we’re up seven. That was the same thing happened last time, right? You know they use the words in play. “Georgia is in play,” they say, Georgia’s in play. Well we’re up seven and this is a poll that truly hates us, okay? But they did the last time. Didn’t they say last time that Texas was in play? And then it was 8:00, the polls closed and they only announce if you’re way ahead. So they say, “The polls have closed in the great state of Texas, Donald Trump has won the great state of Texas.”

I kept hearing it was in play. They said Utah, the home of our worst senator, they said Utah, was in play. That’s Mitt Romney. Mike Lee is doing excellent. I didn’t want to get them confused by the way, but they say Utah same thing, remember that? Four years ago, we had the guy with the shaved head. What was his name, Rick? What a loser that was, you know who I’m talking about. That’s right. McMuffin I think, something like that. He was going to win Utah and I won it by many, many, many points, it was called immediately. So these are people that are just [inaudible 00:53:28] … Hillary even beat this guy. Hillary. Hillary came in second in Utah.

In less than four years we’ve achieved more than anyone thought possible. We passed massive tax cuts for hardworking families and we eliminated more regulations than any administration in the history of our country. I saved the U.S. auto industry by withdrawing from the last administration’s job-killing catastrophe known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership. It would have been a catastrophe, not only for autos by the way, for everything else too. To protect our workers I imposed stiff tariffs on foreign aluminum and foreign steel. That kept you guys very busy. [inaudible 00:54:20] all over the place [inaudible 00:54:24]. This week my administration reached a breakthrough agreement to stop additional steel imports from Brazil and from Mexico for the rest of the year despite the USMCA, sometimes they get a little carried away and we have to do a little tariff action on them. So we stopped that.

We’re reversing decades of the Biden betrayals that decimated Pennsylvania jobs, you know that. This state lost, listen to this, one in three manufacturing jobs after the twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entrance into the World Trade Organizations, one of the worst things that happened, when China came in. They were flat-lined for many years, then they came into this crazy deal. They’re considered a developing nation, you see I’ve been sort of protesting that like, but they’re considering China as a developing nation, you get all sorts of things that you would never get, advantages over the United States. Well we have very strongly protested that. They’re not a developing nation, they’re a very powerful developed nation, and you know what? They got to pay what everyone else has to pay. Earlier this year I kept my promise to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania when we ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement into law which is in effect now and really doing well. Everyone said it will never happen, and I had great help from these gentlemen right here. I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China’s pillaging, plundering and rampant theft of Pennsylvania and many other places, jobs. That’s all throughout the world by the way but our states have been just pillaged by China and others. Joe Biden’s agenda is made in China, my agenda is made in America.

After years and years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country, it’s called America First. We’re America First, that’s enough, and we’re bringing our soldiers back home. You see what’s going on. After 19 years in Afghanistan, far away places, to bring hope to our inner cities, I created opportunity zones, Tim Scott, great senator from South Carolina worked on it with me. Passed criminal justice reform, delivered permanent funding for historically black colleges and universities that Obama would never do and before the China virus we achieved the lowest African-American, Hispanic-American, Asian-American unemployment rates ever recorded by far. And they’re now heading back in that direction quickly. Democrat politicians have failed the black community for decades, they’ve failed the Asian community, the Hispanic community. They failed women. The numbers on women’s unemployment were the best in 61 years. Biden spent the last 47 years betraying the American people. He was always for things that you wouldn’t want and now he’s changing, “No, I never said that. I never said that.” I’ve spent the last four years keeping my promises and delivering for the African-American community and for all communities and the best is yet to come.

Perhaps in no area have our opponents more thoroughly betrayed working families of all backgrounds and on the subject of immigration, we’ve been fighting for that. Under my administration we achieved the most secure border in American history. We ended catch and release, stopped asylum fraud, and we’ve deported 20,000 gang members and we get them out and we get them out fast. Thank you ICE. ICE and Border Patrol. ICE and Border Patrol. They don’t like ICE because ICE is, they’re tough. You got to be tough in that job by the way. Anybody up here like to work in ICE? I don’t think so. Let’s see, you could probably be okay but you’d rather do what you’re doing, right? I agree with you. These are tough guys, they have to be tough. These are bad, bad gang members. I mean you look at MS-13, you look at what’s happened with MS-13, you look at … We get them the hell out. Sometimes we have to put them in prison because we don’t even want to take a chance, they can come back in after what they’ve done.

We built 300 miles of border wall and we’re adding 10 new miles every single week. Every week and the wall will be finished very soon and by the way, they keep saying, “But Mexico will be paying for the wall,” and I said respectfully to Mexico but they will be paying for the wall. They understand that, they just don’t want to write it and that’s okay too. Because Mexico’s treated us very well. The president of Mexico, right now they have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our border guarding us from people coming in illegally into our country. We invested $2.5 trillion in the United States military and launched the first new branch of the United States Armed Forces in nearly 75 years since the Air Force and that’s called the Space Force. [inaudible 01:00:21] pretty good. Going to send my kid to space, you want to go into space, bud? Our great congressman, but think of that. You know we created a new branch of the United States … That alone, if you had that, that alone, but then you add judges, all the other things. We passed VA choice, the VA accountability. So now instead of waiting for a week, two weeks, five weeks, nine weeks to see a doctor, you don’t have a doctor, you go right out, you get a private doctor, we pay the bill and our great veterans get better quickly. And accountability, we keep people accountable for the way they treat our veterans and if they don’t treat them well, we say, “Sorry, you’re fired. Get out.” We couldn’t fire anybody. We had [inaudible 01:01:11], we had thieves, we had some very bad people in the VA and they’re all gone. Thank you, I love you too, thank you. Thank you. Such friendly voices. Quite beautiful. Only in Pennsylvania, right? Thank you.

I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, think of this. Obama paid $150 billion for a short-term deal. He gave $1.8 billion in cash. You ever see a million dollars like at a casino floor or something in $100 bills? It’s a lot, it’s like the size of this, right? Now think $1.8 billion. How did you guys allow that to happen? They said we all voted against it. I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel. You never know nowadays, right? And I opened the U.S. embassy in Jerusalem. I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’ve been trying to get that done for 52 years, I got it done immediately.

By the way, as far as the capital of Israel, Jerusalem, they’ve been talking about many, many presidents. They all promised it, nobody did it. I did it. We get things done, and we just did something that is incredible. Even the New York Times gave it good reviews, not good reviews, beyond good reviews. Tom Friedman gave it phenomenal reviews, you believe that? That’s we achieved the first breakthrough in Middle East peace in decades, a deal with Israel and the UAE. It’s a deal with Israel and the UAE and that’s going to lead and I’m going to tell you we have representatives over right now and other people are saying we want to get in that deal. You’ll have peace in the Middle East. We want to get the hell out. Let’s get them all back. Let’s get thel all back. Don’t forget, we’re energy independent. There used to be a reason. Now we do have a reason, it’s called Israel, and we have some very good partnerships over there. In all fairness we have some countries that have treated us very well and we’re going to take care of those countries, but we are energy independent for the first time and that’s a very good feeling.

Our military has never been stronger than it is now. It’s new and it’s beautiful and I told you we took over 100% of the ISIS caliphate in Iraq and Syria and we killed the founder and leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi, and separately, we killed the world’s number one terrorist, number one terrorist for decades and decades, Qasem Soleimani. We killed Soleimani. It’s a big step for the Middle East. We kept America out of wars. Remember they always said, “Oh, this Trump. He’s radical, he’s really, I mean he’s off the … He’s too radical. He’ll get us in wars.” I kept us out of wars, what happened with North Korea? Look, I get along with Kim Jong-un. They say, “That’s terrible he gets along.” No it’s good if I get along. If I get along with Russia, is that a good thing or a bad thing? I think it’s a good thing.

These maniacs, any time … They always talk about Russia, they never talk about China. It’s very interesting. It’s always Russia, I heard it’s starting again, they said somebody spoke to Russia two years ago. Russia, Russia, Russia. This total maniac Shifty Schiff, he’s a total maniac. Do you ever notice, I can’t even listen to him but when I hear Russia I just turn it off. It’s crazy but you know getting along with countries is actually a good thing. Can we explain thing? It’s a good thing, not a bad thing. It’s a very good thing. Remember I was the one that was going to be leading you into war, in the first week, he’ll be in war, he’s a radical kind of a personality. I’m really not, I like to have peace, but if we ever do get into war, we will knock the hell out of them, whoever [inaudible 01:05:41]. These guys only fight to tie, they don’t fight to win, you fight to win.

You look at what’s happening where they’re all coming back home. I even reduced in Germany because Germany, they’re an ally, but you know, they took advantage of us very badly on trade and very badly with our military. So we removed a lot of soldiers out of Germany. They’re not happy, they said, “This is going to hurt our economy.” Well it’s good for our economy, okay? They thought it was going to hurt the German economy. Well, they don’t treat us right, they don’t pay their bills, they’re delinquent. You know what delinquent is? They’re delinquent. They don’t pay their bills. We protect them, they don’t pay their bills. We got to do something and they treat us horribly on trade through the European Union which basically they run.

Together we’ve been rapidly fixing a half a century of disasters and Biden was there for every one of them. Joe Biden supported NAFTA, China’s entry into the World Trade. He supported the Korean deal, the Korean deal was so bad, it was so bad. This was a deal that was going to produce to South Korea done by Crooked Hillary Clinton, this was a deal that was going to produce 250,000 jobs. She said, ” This will be 250,000,” and she was right, for South Korea. It produced 250,000 jobs. For us, we got nothing. We got losses, we got nothing. It was a terrible deal, I renegotiated, now it’s a good deal. They also gave and want to give mass amnesty for illegal aliens. Biden supported cutting Social Security. He voted for the Iraq War, he opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden. He opposed the killing of Soleimani, when I did that, he said, “That’s a terrible thing. That’s a terrible thing.” Everybody in the Middle East, they couldn’t believe it. They celebrated, some of them quite quietly I must add.

He oversaw the rise of ISIS and he cheered the rise of China as a positive development for America and the entire world. Remember that? Now he’s trying to say, “Well I can be tough on China too.” No he can’t. China owns him. China owns Sleepy Joe. He’s not going to be tough on China and he said all these wonderful things and then all of a sudden his poll numbers started going down. How about law enforcement? He’s like so bad. In his entire convention, they didn’t even mention, and by the way, something else they did that I think is terrible, really terrible. The words under God, right? Right? Right? Called the Pledge of Allegiance. Under God, he left those two words out twice at their caucus which is part of their convention. But that’s where they’re coming from. He’s trying this, “Oh well we didn’t do this,” and then we gave it to him and he sort of shut up but then two days later he’s saying it didn’t happen. They lie and these mail-in ballots? These mail-in ballots are a disgrace [inaudible 01:08:46].

Sign your mail-in ballot. You sign it and send it in and then you have to follow it and if on Election Day or early voting, that is not tabulated and counted, you go vote, and then if for some reason after that, it shouldn’t take that long, it comes in, they’re not going to be able to tabulate it because you will have voted. But you have to make sure your vote counts because the only way they’re going to beat us is by doing that kind of stuff. I’m trying to be nice. I’m trying to be nice.

They want to send out congressmen 80 million ballots. Now there have been many races over the last year where they’ve done this and they’ve been a disaster. You look at New York, they had a congressional race, not a very good congresswoman, very untalented, I know her well, I lived in New York. She’s not got much going. They have no idea what the vote is, I think 20% of the ballots were missing and then they declared her the winner and the other guy said, “What about me?” He’s not too happy, her opponent. You look at what happened in Paterson, New Jersey, you look at what happened in Virginia, you look at what happened … There’s not a race, and these are small, these are easy to control.

they want to send out 80 million unsolicited, I like it much better, they used to say universal, they used to say live ballots, I like the word unsolicited, and solicited. Solicited is okay, because that’s when you’re asking and you want it and you send in the necessary paperwork and documentation and you get the ballot and you fill it out, that’s okay. But you can’t, this whole thing with the unsolicited, unsolicited means you’re sitting there. We have a big enthusiasm edge, but when they throw these things in your face and the lists are inaccurate and people are dead and dogs have gotten ballots, they have. Dogs have gotten ballots and they know I’m right and everybody knows I’m right and they say I’m right behind the closed doors and it’s a disgrace, what they do to our country. 80 million unsolicited ballots. People that had no idea. People that weren’t going to vote in all fairness. It’s really unfair because our people have enthusiasm, they’re going out to vote. They’re all going out to vote. Everybody here going to vote? Everybody?

They have no enthusiasm. So I said, “So that’s unfair. That guy walks and then they’ll have somebody knock on the door, say, “Listen, I would like your ballot.” “I don’t want to vote. I don’t care about Biden. I’m a Democrat. I don’t care about this guy.” “Well look, where is it?” “Here take it, blah blah blah.”” They even have a provision where you don’t have to verify signatures. What is going on? And they have another provision in some states where you can harvest, that’s where you grab them all together and drop them. In Nevada, they actually have a provision where they don’t have to be counted until seven days after the election. So that means if we have a close election, could be close, I hope it’s not, I hope we have a landslide like you’ve never seen. But if we have a close election that means Nevada has the right to, and I love Nevada, I think we’re going to win Nevada, except where they’re sending all these hundreds of thousands, millions of unsolicited ballots to people in Nevada and people that probably left a long time ago. It’s very unfair, it’s very unfair, but think of it. They have seven days after the election. Did you know that Mike? Seven days, what does that mean? I want to see the results of the election on November 3.

By the way, if it’s anything like these other events, it could go on forever. I mean the congressional race which they just gave up and they declared her a winner which they should not have done, they should make that a do-over and I think in Paterson they have a do-over. I think they’re going to do it over because it was just ripe with fraud, theft. People were selling ballots, people were selling ballots, and you know they talk about Russia. They’re so worried about Russia. What about sending out 80 million ballots? That’s your real problem, and if Russia or China or these other countries want to cheat, all they have to do is forge ballots. It’s much easier than the way they have to go about it, right? So we have to put pressure on these people.

Now the good news is we have a lot of court cases we have won in Pennsylvania, you know that, right? We have two judges, we have a state judge, we have a federal judge. I think both highly qualified judges from what I understand, I hear that they’re not too happy about what they’re seeing. So we’ll see what happens. We’re going to see what happens. The lawyers feel very confident but we have to win those cases but what you have to do is send in your early ballot and then go and make sure that ballot is tabulated or counted, and if it’s not counted, vote, and then they have the job, if it comes in late, and if it’s not too late, they have the job of making sure that they don’t count it. But follow that ballot because these people, they’ll be lost, they’ll be gone, the numbers are incredible where they’re 25 and 30% off, 20% off. Follow your ballot.

When I banned travel from China, Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic. If we had listened to Sleepy Joe hundreds of thousands of more Americans would have died. You know that. You know he always gets up today, “COVID-19, COVID-19.” I say, “Joe, look. We got a country,” and I agree with that and we’ve done a hell of a job. We’ve done a hell of a job. If you look at some of our numbers. You got to start talking about the economy and you got to start talking, your place, I mean this is … When you look at Pennsylvania, you’re in a shutdown. You have a governor that has you shut down.

[inaudible 01:16:12] we know the susceptible are old people, senior citizens, nursing homes. People that are old, especially if they have heart problems or if they have diabetes. We know that, we learned it, and we opened it up. But the problem these shutdowns are causing much bigger problems. You remember my original statement, right? The cure can’t be greater. It was an original statement that a lot of people picked up but it’s so true. You have to open up this commonwealth, it has to be opened up. It has to be opened up now.

But there’s what I think they’re doing, because you have the same thing in New York. We have a governor in New York who is 36,000 people died, 11,000 people in a nursing home because he made a mistake. He made a horrible mistake, and I built him a convention center with 2,800 beds and they didn’t use it and I sent up a ship, a great hospital ship, a massive hospital with hundreds and hundreds of rooms and they didn’t use it and he requested it and then I said, “You’re not using it. Why aren’t you using it?” He could have put those people in the convention center in the hospital ship. What a shame.


You look at New York, the restaurants are all closed. It’s so sad for me. I love New York. I grew up in New York, I love New York, I did well in New York, and it’s so sad when I look at what’s happening with New York. It’s all politics. If you kill somebody they don’t prosecute you but they go after political enemies. What’s happening in New York is a terrible thing and the place is dead. No restaurants [inaudible 01:18:00] how long can you do this for?


Restaurant, poor guys. You can’t, how long can you do this for? The people are going to lose their jobs. They’re never going to open again. It’s not like the restaurants is the greatest business in the world. It’s a hard business. New York is closed. You’re closed. North Carolina’s closed. Michigan’s … all Democrats. Let me tell you, what’s going to happen on November 4th. They’re going to announce their opening. They’re doing this for political reasons. They are. Right, John?

They’re doing it for political reasons because they want our numbers to look as bad as possible, going into November 3rd, election day. Then as soon as the election’s over with, win, lose or draw for them, they’re going to open it. They got nothing. You know what? It’s a shame what they’re doing. For political reasons, they’ll be open. You’ll be open on November 4th, but you know what? From your standpoint, it’s very close to the election. It’s very far if you have a restaurant, and you can’t open your restaurant. You can’t open your store. It’s a disgrace and they ought to get together. They ought to do it.


These are Democrat governors in all instances and Democrat mayors. When the China virus arrived, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II. Thanks to the life- saving therapies that we pioneered, the mortality rate has been reduced by 85% since April. Think of that. We’ve achieved among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country, anywhere in the world. You never hear that from the fake news. They don’t want to talk to you about it. This is a big country. This is a tougher country to do that with, the European Union’s case fatality rate is nearly three times higher than ours.

If you look now, Spain is having a big blow up. France is having a big blow up. Now, we’ve done a great job, we haven’t been given credit for it. He always starts off, COVID-19. That’s all he knows. COVID-19. I said, “What about the economy? What about jobs? What about all the other things we have to do?” All he does, he thinks it’s a weak spot, and actually in theory, if we’re getting a fair shake from those people back there, it’s actually what the job we’ve done is actually a strong spot.

That includes you people, with the ventilators that nobody had. Nobody that needed a ventilator, didn’t get a ventilator. Now we’re supplying them all over the world. Altogether, the nations of Europe have experienced a 30% greater increase in excess mortality than the United States. Think of that. You don’t hear these numbers. Cases in the US have declined by 28% nationwide over the last month, and hospitalizations and deaths have declined radically over the last week. Three vaccines are in final stage of clinical trials. Would have taken two years for another president. I was going to say a normal president, but they’ll hit me with … A little truth to that too.

Now, but for another president, especially, in the last administration, they had the H1N1 pandemic. It was called Swine flu. You know, Joe always calls it the N1H1. He gets it mixed up. No, it’s the H1N1, Joee. Not that it matters, I guess. No. Do you ever notice, he’s always calling it the other. He calls it the opposite. He has no clue where he is, but he keeps saying, “Oh, if he was,” well he didn’t want the ban China, and we saved hundreds of thousands of lives by banning China. I was the only one that wanted to do it, actually. Then we banned Europe because I saw what was happening in Italy and Spain and France. We banned Europe. We saved hundreds of thousands. If I didn’t do the closing and the opening, so we’re at 175,000, far too … look, one is too much because this was given to us by China, and it’s a disgrace.

It’s a disgrace. They could have stopped it. They stopped it from going into China, but not going to the rest of the world, including our country. It’s a disgrace. But think of it. Joe Biden got the worst marks you’ve ever seen for his handling of the H1NI Swine flu. They said it was incompetent, and the head guy, who now he’s trying to retract. It’s a little tough. That’s one great thing about the tape. He said it was horrible. He said, we did a horrible job. He said, they got lucky. It’s not contagious like this. We got, this is a tough one. I can look at that guy and he’ll catch it. Right there, and he’s very far away from me. It’s a tough one, because it’s so contagious.

But the Swine flu is a different thing, but also, nothing’s easy about that, pandemics or epidemics and his marks … Take a look at the job they did. It was so bad that their top person criticized it, and they went after him. They said, “Don’t ever say that again,” but it’s a little late. He said it was one of the worst jobs, and we actually had a Gallup poll where we got very high marks for the job we did. They had a poll where it was so low, it wasn’t recordable. Then he’s coming along and telling us how to solve this very difficult problem. We’ve done a great job and I don’t want the credit, but I want the people, Mike Pence [inaudible 01:23:20] .

I tell you what, our Vice-President, Mike Pence, and the task force, headed up by Mike and working along with a lot of great people, they’ve done a fantastic job and they just get no credit. If I was a Democrat, a different president, and they did the same job, they’d say it was one of the greatest jobs they’ve ever seen. But take a look at what they say about the way they handled the Swine flu. It was a disaster. It was incompetent. They called themselves incompetent. They call, and now they’re coming in like, well, we would have done this and Biden by the way, was against, you remember, xenophobic, racist, because I closed down China.

Then two months later, two and a half, three, and Nancy Pelosi was having dances in Chinatown, right? A month later. No, no problem. I was way ahead. Then Biden comes out and he actually said that I was right, but they said, “Don’t say that, try doing it a little softer than that.” He did it a little bit softer, but we were right. They were wrong. They handled it so badly. Just take a look, because we, I said to my people, “We’ve got to fight this a little bit differently because we’re getting a lot of fake news, a lot of bad people saying things”, and you look at the stats and you look at how we’ve done compared to really much easier and much smaller countries, it’s amazing.

If you took New York out of it, which was a disaster by Cuomo, if you took New York out of those numbers, we would have numbers that would be even better than they are. I could read numbers that would be even much better, because a big percentage of the people that died in this country died because New York was incompetently run by Mayor de Blasio and Governor Cuomo. By the way, just today, there’s another credible thing happening. Pfizer, great company, announced that it expects to have the results of its vaccine trials in a matter of weeks, very shortly. Incredible.

Under Operation Warp Speed, we remain on track to produce a safe and effective vaccine, in that record time that we talked about. This would have been years later. It’ll be delivered before, in my opinion, before the end of the year, but it really might even be delivered before the end of October. How do you like that? Wouldn’t that be nice? That would be nice. You know why? Not because of the electric. It’ll be nice because we want to save people. That’s why it’ll be nice. That’s the important thing. Together, we will defeat the virus. The job we’re doing is, the job that all of the people working on it, our generals, our admirals, the distribution, we bought billions and billions of dollars of things, and now we make gowns and we make masks and we make shields and we make ventilators.
Very tough. The ventilator’s very complicated, very big, very expensive. It’s like, I made the statement, it’s like building a car, but more sophisticated. They said, “No, it’s not.” They said, they took a ventilator. They took it apart. These people are the worst, the worst. Over the next four years, we’ll make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. That’s what we’ll do. Let me just tell you something. If they didn’t waste a year and a half of my life on a ridiculous impeachment, based on a phone call that was perfect, this stuff would have all been done. Would have all been done, truly.

It would have all been done. Yet, with all of this stuff, the fake Russia witch hunt, the fake Ukraine. How about that? Did anybody read the transcript of that call? It was a perfect call. “Hey, congratulations. Good luck.” It was like a perfect call. Now they’ll take it back and they’ll say, “Well, I don’t know.” This was a per … In history, there’s never been anything like this. It was a totally lopsided, 100% political witch hunt, and it goes on and on. These are bad people. I really believe they don’t love our country. I watched Nancy Pelosi. “You must wear your mask. You have to wear your mask, and we’re going to keep every beauty salon closed in California and all over the country.”

Then I see a picture. I say, “Nancy Pelosi. Well, where’s the mask?” I’ll tell you what. She must have treated that beauty salon owner pretty badly. She uses the salon and the salon turned her in? The salon turned her in. I don’t think I would have turned her in. I would’ve said, “Well, you know, she’s a customer. I got to take care of my customers, right?” But she made them open, and the salon turned her in and the salon did business with her. How much do they hate Nancy Pelosi? Then she made a terrible mistake because you want people that can’t be set up. She said, “I was set up. I was set up by the salon owner. I was set up.”

I said, “Tell me she didn’t say that, please.” I just put out, that if she was set up, then she shouldn’t be leading the House of Representatives. I want the salon owner to lead the House of Representatives, because she set up … Think of it. She set up the Speaker of the House. That was a big mistake. As soon as I heard, she said, “Well, she’s sent me up,” Nancy, you’re not supposed to get set up. You’re representing our country. You know what she should have done honestly? She should have said, “I made a mistake, sorry,” and nobody would be talking about, this is like the biggest story. This is the big, crazy Nancy, highly overrated person.

Let me just say she is a highly overrated person. They give her such good play. She is a highly overrated person. Look, they just turned off a camera because they don’t want me saying that. Just in closing, we will rapidly return to full employment, soaring wages and record prosperity. We will hire more police, increased penalties for assault on law enforcement. Surge federal prosecutors into high-crime communities and ban sanctuary cities. We will appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms.

We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens. We will not let them threaten our citizens, and we will keep America out of endless foreign wars. We will end surprise medical billing. We don’t want surprise medical billing. You know what happens? It’s terrible, but we have ended it. Also, we’ve signed something that’s incredible. You’re going to see. Some people say it’s bigger than healthcare, and I signed it. Unfortunately it takes place on January 1st. You better elect me. You better elect me. It’s called price transparency.

I said to my people at the end of the day, what is price transparency? This is going to lower your prices by 50%. You’ll be able to negotiate. You’ll be able to do things you’re not even allowed to do now, with hospitals, with doctors. You get better doctors, you get lower prices. I said, “When does it start?” It’s a complicated … Oh, did I get, I was fought. You have no idea. Right fellows? You have fought too. But they fought me on this price transparency. It’s bigger than healthcare, could be bigger than healthcare. But I said, “When does it start?” They said, “Sir, we have it all set.” “When?” “January 1st,” “I said, I’d better win this election,” because you’re going to see some unbelievable price reductions. That includes on drugs, because we’re reducing health insurance premiums massively, and the cost of prescription drugs went down the first time in 51 years, last year.

But now it’s going to go down very big, because we did a favorite nation’s clause. I see the drug companies are, they’re killing me with ads. They have nothing but cash. They have nothing but money. They’re spending because they can’t believe … Germany and other countries pay much less than we do. We want to have, what we have to have, is we have to have a comparison of prices. That’s what it is called, favored nation clause. I instituted a favorite, so we’re paying $2.50 for a pill, and some nation is paying 25 cents for the same exact pill from the same factory, right? We get the 25 cent price. So, what’s going to happen that’ll go up. Ours will come way down.

They can’t believe it. The drug companies can’t believe, and I will tell you, Mark Meadows is here, our Chief of Staff. Where’s Mark? They want to negotiate. They called. We signed it. It’s all done. They want to negotiate and they are negotiating, so let’s see what happens, but we’re going to get you cuts on prescription drugs, the likes of which you’ve never seen. We’ll protect Medicare and Social Security. They will not be able to protect it. It will always protect patients with preexisting conditions, always.

America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. When I took over, NASA was dead. Now it’s the most vibrant space center in the world, by far. We will restore patriotic education to our schools and we’ll teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. We will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God, We Trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Pennsylvania.

From Pittsburgh to Harrisburg, from Erie to Easton, and from Bethlehem to right here in Arnold Palmer’s beloved Latrobe. I love Arnold Palmer. Arnold, where are you? We love Arnold. There was only one Arnold. We stand on the shoulders of Pennsylvania Patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. Pennsylvania is the state where our founding fathers declared American Independence, right? Declared American Independence. Add the word Commonwealth in there. This way, they won’t [inaudible 01:35:24] us. It’s where the army weathered its brutal winter at Valley Forge, and where General George Washington, who, by the way, they want all of the name, Washington removed from everything.

I haven’t been keeping up with it. What did he do? George Washington, they want the name off. Congressman are we okay showing … I don’t think you liked that idea too much. George Washington. They want his name off everything, but we’ll keep it. I promise you this. As long as you canceled culture, you better have a strong president. Canceled culture. George Washington, can you believe? But he led his men on a daring mission across the Delaware. This is the Commonwealth where our union was saved by the heroes of Gettysburg and where generations of tough, strong Pennsylvania workers, mined the coal, worked the railroads, forged the steel that made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of world. That’s in the history of the world and we are making it greater than it’s ever been before. That’s what’s going to happen. Proud citizens like you, helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country from these very, very deranged people. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help and your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America will soon be thriving like never before. Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country, and together we will work very hard.

The people of Pennsylvania, the great, great people of Pennsylvania, where I went to college. It’s a place I know very well. But, we will make America wealthy. Again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you, Pennsylvania.

Hello, everybody. Hello, everybody. Wow. Hello, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. And I’ll tell you, we’re landing and there are thousands of people along the runways, and I said, “Why aren’t they here?” “Sir, we couldn’t let them in.” “Why not? Let’s let them in.” Oh, these people. And then they put in a floor. This is for Manchester because you know about flooring. They put in a floor that’s like an ice skating rink. So we’re going to tiptoe around.

How are you, everybody? We love you. We love you. Great, great people. Manchester, we had some good memories in Manchester. 2016, but this is going to be, we are right now in the most important election in our history. But I’m thrilled to be back in the Granite State with the true hard-working American Patriots. Last night it was my great honor to accept the Republican nomination for President of the United States.

We’re going to win. We’re going to win. Does anybody have any doubt? Does anybody… It’s very interesting, last night we had an incredible time and I don’t know if you know, it’s driving the fake news crazy. They’re back. But the poll numbers have swung. If you go back six months before the plague flew in from China, the plague, the horrible plague, this election was over. This election was over. And then I had to go back to work. I had to go back to work. And then I went back to work and we’ve done an incredible job in every aspect of running government, but I also had to start campaigning a little bit again, and I did.

And today it was announced that Joe Biden is coming out of the basement. Because the poll numbers have totally swung. They totally swung. And they’ve swung like nobody’s ever seen them swing before. And it was rapid. It was a rapid swing. Because they all admit that we’re doing a great job. There’s not too many presidents that have done a job like we’ve done, including keeping you out of wars, bringing you home from the endless wars. But they’ve swung.

But here’s what I don’t get. Sleepy Joe’s coming out he said in 10 days, that’s a long… 10 days. 10 days. That’s like an eternity in Trumpville. 10 days. I view 10 days is like an eternity, okay? So he decided he’s coming out and he’s going to be out in 10 days. That’s a long time. That’s a big percentage of the remaining time. That’s all right, he’s much better off where he is. I think he’s, I think he just…


We love Melania, we do. She did a great job. Did a great job. She did a great job. She went up on Tuesday night, did an incredible job. Last night was exciting, wasn’t it? [ inaudible 00:17:31].

And how about those stories from friends of mine? How about those stories? Was that just compelling and incredible television, but really that was an exciting, a really good quality convention. Really great. So many people. So many people, you saw some tragic situations, some really great endorsements, you saw everything. If you… How about the endorsement of Herschel Walker? When you watch that that was from the heart. That was from the heart. Dana White today. I just saw it today because last night I was looking at this speech a little bit. We had a wonderful turnout last night.

What I didn’t like, you saw this right, when it was over, you saw when it was over? The thugs outside because the Democratic mayor of Washington DC, it’s another Democrat that’s not believing in law and order. And you know we give Washington DC a lot of money to run it, but they don’t do a good job of running it. The mayor, she doesn’t run anything. And these incredible people from all over the country, all over the world that were there last night, they walked out to a bunch of thugs. And that wasn’t, remember this, that wasn’t friendly protesters. They were thugs. They were thugs. And the DC police are good, but the mayor gave bad instructions last night, that should have never been allowed to happen.

When a senator like Rand Paul walks out, and thank God we had some good police around him and they took a tremendous… They took tremendous abuse. And Rand Paul was in big trouble last night, he’s a good guy, he’s a friend of mine, and that shouldn’t happen to anybody. But he is a US senator walking outside and those four policemen should be brought over to the White House and we ought to give them a medal of some kind, and we’re going to do it. We’re going to do it. I told that to Rand. And the mayor should be ashamed of herself for that kind of a display of incompetence because that’s what’s happening in Portland. And that’s what’s happening all over where you have Democrat-run cities. Just take a look. And we’re looking at the whole situation in DC, and tonight they have a lot of people gathering, let’s see how that works out. They have to be able to manage their affairs, they get a lot of money. She’s always looking for money, “Could we have more money?” “What are you going to waste it on? I mean spend it on. What are you going to waste it on, Mayor?”

And then our people walk out, and these are people from all over the world, they walk, including Congress, by the way, they walk out and they get accosted, they get abused, they get spit on. It’s a disgrace. And our country is going to change. We’re not going to allow that to happen. You know, we’re not supposed to be… We’re not supposed to be involved unless we’re invited in by the people that run, these are all Democrat cities, just so you understand, including DC. So we’re not supposed to go in unless we call it an insurrection, but that’s a big statement. It’s a big statement. No reason for it. But you know what we’re going to do? We’re going to have to look at it. Mark Meadows is here, we’re going to have to look at it because we’re not going to let that happen to people that go to the White House to celebrate our country.

And a weak guy named Joe Biden, and he’s weak, he’s weak as hell, a weak guy like Joe Biden didn’t even bring law and order up as a subject for discussion in the entire Democrat National Convention. Now they’re all of a sudden… Now they realize because they’ve gone down like a rock in water, they’ve gone down in the polls and now all of a sudden they’re talking all, “Well, we have to talk about crime.” Number one, they have no… Look at what happened to New York, look at what’s going on in Chicago, all Democrats, all radical left Democrats. Look at what’s going on in the great State of Wisconsin. Now I will tell you, two days ago we sent in the National Guard. That was the end of that problem.

Look at Portland. We want to send in the National Guard, we sent in Homeland Security just to protect our… couple of our buildings, including a courthouse, can you believe it? We sent in because-

… couple of our buildings, including a courthouse. Can you believe it? We send in because they can’t protect it. So we sent, they did a very effective job. We could take care of Portland in 45 minutes, 45 minutes. If that governor, if that mayor would call and say, “Please send in the National Guard.” just like … Hey, we did it in Minneapolis. Remember that? The place was going to burn down. Another few days, we send in the National Guard, it was over within an hour. They ought to get smart and that’s what they ought to do.

So now they’re talking about, “Well, we want to …” Why did they call it a friendly protest? Right? Remember the idiot from CNN, he’s standing there. This is a friendly protest. Behind him over his shoulders, the entire city is burning down. Sixty seven days from now, we’re going to win the great state of New Hampshire. We have to. We’re going to win four more years in the White House.

Within my first term in office, we’ve secured America’s borders, brought back our manufacturing jobs, rebuilt the United States military. It was a mess. It was a depleted mess. Wiped out the ISIS caliphate, killed our terrorists enemies, kept America out of foolish, stupid, ridiculous foreign wars. Achieved American energy independence. You see the price of your gasoline. When you go fill it up, “Oh boy, that’s a nice price.” It’s half what it was. We built the single greatest economy in the history of the world. That includes China, which was having a very, very bad year. Then the plague came in from China. We had to close it up.

We saved millions of lives and now we’re open again and we’re setting records. We’re setting records. Wait till you see the numbers just before the election. There’ll be released and this is despite the fact that the Democrats are holding back Michigan, North Carolina. You take a look. Pennsylvania. They want to keep them. By the way, on November 4th, regardless, they’ll be opening them up, November 4th, because they think that hurts the economy and that will hurt me, but our numbers are going to be great. We’re going to have a great third quarter. We’re going to have an unbelievable next year, unless somebody stupid gets elected and raises your taxes.

This November, each of you will vote in truly the most important election in the history of our country. I used to say it about 2016. This is now at a new level. Joe Biden is the puppet of the radical left movement that seeks to obliterate and destroy everything that you hold here including your second amendment, which will have no chance. Your vote will decide whether we save the American dream or whether we allow Biden to eliminate your jobs. By the way, it’s not Biden. It’s not Biden.

It’s his masters, his … They tell him what to do, his masters. They want to erase your borders, confiscate your guns, appoint radical left judges and prosecutors, tear down our history. Demolish your suburbs. You saw what I did. I ended the rule. You’re not going to have low income housing built in your suburbs anymore, but nobody writes that because the fake news doesn’t want to write that, but everyone knows. Unless our friends in the suburbs have gotten a lot dumber than they used to be, they know that. They want to destroy your suburbs, indoctrinate our children, defund the police and try everything in the book to turn our cities so that they look more like Portland, Oregon than what we’re used to looking at. Never forget, they are coming after me because I am fighting for you. It’s true.

Today’s Democrat party is filled with hate. Just look at Joe Biden supporters on the streets screaming and shouting at bystanders with unhinged manic rage. Right? You see it. It’s crazy. It’s crazy. You ought to see last night in Washington. It was a disgrace. It was a disgrace that these people are representing the United States of America. It was a disgrace. Protesters. You know what I say? Protest is your ass. I don’t talk about my ass.

They’re not protestors. Those aren’t … Those are anarchists. They’re agitators. They’re rioters. They’re looters. They’re not … You know you say that and some of the people, not all of them, but some of the people back there, “Oh, how dare you. These are friendly protesters, right?” Friendly …

They’re just looking for trouble. Has nothing to do with George Floyd. Has nothing to do with anything. They don’t even know who George Floyd is. Okay? They don’t know who George Floyd. They have no idea. If you ask them, “Who’s George Floyd?” They couldn’t even tell you. These are just bad people, troublemakers and they shouldn’t be representing our country at important events and we’ve got to stop it. Democrats have no complaint about the rioters and the vandals, marauding through our cities or mass unruly demonstrations, but they don’t believe law abiding citizens can go to a church together. You can’t go to church anymore.

You know how many churches are closed in this country because of the Democrats? You can go out and you can have thousands of people marauding through the streets, threatening other people, beyond threatening, kicking them in the face, doing what they’ve done. You’ve seen it. They would have done that to Senator Rand Paul last night. He’d either be in very bad shape or dead and that would include his wife if those policemen didn’t happen to be there. They took some big beating. The reason they didn’t fight back too much, they don’t want to lose their pension. They don’t want to lose their job, because we’ve become so politically correct, everybody’s afraid to do anything now, but they did a good job.

The puppet Biden, who’s just controlled so strongly wants you to cancel weddings, funerals and school, but has no problem with thousands of so-called peaceful protesters cramming into your streets, mugging people, hurting people, robbing stores, looting stores, burning down storefronts. The radical left will do anything to get power. They smear justice, Brett Kavanaugh, and they are … Did you see anything like that? Justice Kavanaugh. People forget. Time goes by, they forget. We don’t forget. I don’t forget. They’re destroying the livelihoods of innocent people and if Biden wins, which I honestly can’t believe can happen.


I will have lost to a low IQ individual. I don’t want that. I don’t want it. Sleepy Joe, I don’t want it. But the agitators will go from rioting in the streets to running the halls of government. Can you believe it? The levers, they call it the levers of government. The top 10 most dangerous cities in America are run by Democrats and have been for decades. Now they’re trying to impose those policies across the entire country. No one will be safe in Biden’s America. I can’t even call it Biden’s America. God doesn’t know he’s alive. He’s going to be out in 10 days. He’s going to start 10 days. Ten days.

I mean, I gave a big speech last night. I said, “What am I doing tomorrow night?” You’re going to New Hampshire, but sir, we can cancel New Hampshire because you had a big night. We can cancel. Are you crazy? I don’t have the courage to cancel New Hampshire. I got to win New Hampshire. I love the people and you’ve been very good to me. You’ve been very good to me.


You’ve been very good to me. So, New Hampshire was the first state I won. Right? Remember, I came here. I was very excited. That was an exciting evening. That was an exciting race, but we don’t talk about that anymore. We have to talk about the future. We don’t talk about it. That was great. It was important. We’ve done more than any administration in its first three and a half years in the history of our country. That’s despite phony witch hunts, phony investigations, a phony impeachment based on a phone call that was absolutely perfect. That’s despite a pandemic that was probably sent in by China, who the hell knows how it got here and all over the world, because China does not want to see me win I can tell you that. We’re not happy with China. I’ll tell you why. If Biden got in, China would own the United States very quickly. They’d own it. If the Democrat party wants to stand with anarchist, criminals, rioters, looters, and flag burners, that’s up to them. The Republican party and you, I can see you. Is there anybody in this place that enjoys burning the American flag? Is there anybody?

Please quietly raise your hand. Be careful. Could be very dangerous. The Republican party will remain the voice of the patriotic heroes who keep America safe and our law enforcement. Right? We are all that stand between the American people and the left wing mob. If you want to save democracy from the mob, then you must vote to defeat an extremely poor candidate. Look, I believe I have the honor of running against the worst candidate ever put up by the Democratic party, the worst. How do you get worse? I believe he’s the worst candidate, the slowest candidate. I mean, in prime time, he was the slowest candidate, which was a long time ago. Primetime. You know what I don’t like though, they say he’s like 78, 79, 78, I guess. Right? I know people that are 85, that are 88, 92, Bernie Marcus, Home Depot, he’s 92 years old. He’s the sharpest guy you’ll ever meet. There’s nothing … 78 is okay, but that’s a bad 78, not a good 78. 78 is okay, but he shouldn’t say that. They shouldn’t say … The press, they say he’s too old. He’s not too old. He’s not too old, but 78 is okay, but I do. I know people in their 90s that are 100% sharp and good physically, actually good physically. You want debate? So do I. I want debates too. I want debates too.

Tonight, we’re honored to be joined by New Hampshire House Republican leader, Dick Hinch. Where is Dick? I think your great governor is here. Where’s the governor? Where’s our governor? Hi, Dick. Good job. Do we like Dick? Yes. Where’s our governor? He’s here. He just met me. I told him, “Go back.” Hi, Steve. Because you have a great governor and we don’t have same day voting anymore. We don’t have same day. What a joke that was last time, remember? Buses poured up from Massachusetts with a lot of people that weren’t going to vote for Trump, and they poured up thousands and thousands of people came in on election day and then you had a senator running on the Republican party who wasn’t exactly the greatest for us, but we have done so well here and we’re going to have a big win. I’m hearing we’re going to have a great win. So, I want to thank you, governor.

Also with us, our state representatives, Al Baldasaro and Fred Doucette. Where are you? Hi. Hi, Al. I know these guys so well. Hey Al, have I taken care of the vets better than you even thought?


This guy I met him. He’s a big vet. He wanted the vets. He didn’t care about anything else, but the vets. Honestly, he couldn’t have cared less about anybody here except the vets, but I did a good job, right? We did a good job for the vets. Very importantly, very, very US Senate candidate Corky Messner. Good, Corky. I hear you’re doing well. Good, Corky. Get them. We need Corky. Get them. I hear you’re doing well, Corky.

Congressional candidate Matt Mowers. Matt, thank you. Thank you, Matt. Great people. A friend of mine for a long time, he said right from the beginning, “You’re going to win this state, sir.” We met him at the primaries. Chairman of New Hampshire Republican Party Steven Stepanek. Steven. Hi, Steve. Great Steve. Co-chairman of my New Hampshire campaign Lou Gargiulo. Where’s Lou? Lou Gargiulo. Hi, Lou. How am I doing? Are we winning, Lou? Lou, are we winning? Thank you. You said yes. If he said no, he’s out of here.

A friend of mine and a friend of the state, he loves this state and he is a smart cookie. So good. I love him on television. He’s no games. Just looks and gives her the answer, but he’s done a fantastic job. The first person on my whole … You read about all these people. This is the first guy and he’s a great guy and he’s a friend of mine, Corey Lewandowski. Where is Corey? Great guy. Tremendous guy. Tremendous help. Thank you, Corey. Are you having a good time, Corey? Who’s going to win this year, Corey? You bet. A little bit slow with that head, Corey.

With the help of everyone here today, we’ve accomplished more in the first three years. We’ve done so much. We’ve done so much. You can go over at taxes and you can go over what we’ve done with the military. We passed the biggest tax cuts ever, ever the history of our country. Now, they want to raise taxes. Think of it. All my life, I’ve watched politicians. Don’t forget, I’ve only been doing this for four and a half years. I haven’t been to … I’ve had senators come in. I’ve had congressmen come in. “Sir, I’ve been doing this for 25 years and in 25 years I’ve only lost three races, sir.” I said, “But I’ve only been doing it for four years and I only won one race, but now I have to win two. One race I won, but it was the president. It was for president.” It was for president, but we did the largest tax cut in the history of our country. We eliminated the most job destroying regulations in the history of our country. I ended the job killing Paris climate accord. That was a killer. That was meant to hurt the United States. By the way, in case you had any questions. Today, the United States is the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth. To give critically ill patients access to lifesaving cures we passed and hopefully anybody here doesn’t need it. Nobody here. Uh-oh, do you need it? Uh-oh. Don’t raise that … Oh she is? Is she okay? I’ll get it for her. Is she okay? We got to get her on the list. Tell me. Oh, from before. Well, that’s a long time before I was president. Does she want to get on the list? Because I’ve seen you at rallies before. I want to get … Will you please, I want to get his wife on the list. It’s called right to try. Right to try. Good work.


He’s been a friend of mine. Come on. He’s been here for a long time. He’s been a good guy for a long time. We got to … Is your wife, how she doing?


She couldn’t get it before me. Well, we had that with Mueller. You saw that with the Mueller’s last night. You saw that, right? Was that Assad with their incredible daughter, what happened? He said if Trump was president that wouldn’t have happened and they’re right, that would not have happened. We took out al-Baghdadi. I wish I were president, you would had a different solution. Thank you. Thank you.


Go ahead. How about you? Yeah. We’ll talk to you later. Right to try. You have no idea. So many people, they used to travel all over the world to get a cure. Now, we can sign a quick simple document. It sounds easy, it wasn’t, but it was easy for me. I understood it. Now, you signed a document. We give you the greatest medicines even if they haven’t been approved. If somebody’s terminally ill, like in the case of your wife, if somebody’s terminally ill, at least you have hope, but it’s beyond that because people have gone home. You have to see some of the results have been incredible. You saw one of the people the other day, right? That wonderful young lady that was so incredible and spoke so well. She’s a special person. She really is a special person. Thank you. We’ll talk to you. Thank you very much.


To bring opportunities to our inner cities, I signed the groundbreaking criminal justice reform, prison reform, opportunity zones, permanent funding for historically black colleges and universities. True. Before the China virus came in, before that China virus came in, we had the best job numbers ever recorded the history of our country. We had almost 160 million Americans working. We had never had numbers like that. The Republican party is the party of Abraham Lincoln. Remember that. We-


We stand for so much, including Martin Luther King’s dream of a nation where our children are judged not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. You know that. The radical left’s effort to divide everyone by race tears us apart. There’s so much racial hatred, and it’s put there by CNN, by MSDNC… They stoke the flames and they know it. The good news is the ratings aren’t great. So that’s okay. They don’t have great ratings. But they stoke the flames. Uh-oh, CNN just turned off their camera again. They always turn off their camera. Why do I keep doing that? Every time I do it, they turn off their camera. They did it last time. I mention CNN, they’re screaming, turn the camera off.


Our movement is about a brighter future for all Americans of every race, religion, color, and creed. Joe Biden spent the last 47 years betraying the African American community. I’ve spent the last four years delivering for the African American community like nobody, with the exception possibly of Abraham Lincoln, has delivered before. It’s true. My first week in office, I withdrew the United States from the last administration’s horrible, stupid, insane Trans Pacific Partnership. Would’ve destroyed the US auto industry and many other industries. New Hampshire lost one in four, and I think much more than that, manufacturing jobs following twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entrance into the WTO. It was more than one in four. That statistic is wrong. Please have it changed. The statistic is wrong, far more than one in four.


Earlier this year, I kept my promise and replaced the NAFTA nightmare with a brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement. They said that couldn’t be done. I also took the toughest ever action to stand up to China’s pillaging and plundering of American jobs. Joe Biden’s agenda is made in China. My agenda is made in America.



After years of building up other nations, we are finally building up our nation and our jobs, and we’re taking care of our people.

Last night, I got great reviews of the speech and all, but some of the fakers back there, they said, “Well, it was a little long. He shouldn’t have used the White House.” Oh really? Tell me. But they said it was a little… Then one person, I think it was Chris Wallace. Nice guy. He’s actually a nice guy. He said that, “He didn’t have the same energy in the speech that he usually has.” Well, it’s a different kind of a speech. Tonight, I’m in New Hampshire and we can wing it.

See, actually, actually Chris, who has always wanted to be his father, but it never worked out because of a lack of talent. Actually though, actually Chris has it wrong. If I did last night’s speech here, by now you would have all been walking out. And if I did tonight’s speech there, I would have been criticized by being slightly radical. But we’re having a good time doing it this way, right? Because we are finally putting America first.

Under my administration, America’s borders are more secure than ever before. We ended the catch and release, stopped asylum fraud. And we have deported 20,000 gang members and 500,000 criminal aliens. We’ve already built 300 miles of border wall and we’re adding 10 new miles every single week. The wall will soon be completed. And our numbers on the border are the best they’ve ever been. And by the way, Mexico is paying for the wall. Just in case you didn’t know that. They don’t know that. They’re paying for the wall.

You haven’t noticed on the wall. Everything was wall, wall. They didn’t think I was going to get it done. Because look, you have one major party controlling Congress and they don’t want to give me a wall. So they’re going crazy. “Wall. The wall’s not getting done.” Then I get it done. Get it from the military, get it from everything. I’m a developer. I know how to get money. It’s one of those. Developers understand. And now that the wall is almost complete, it’ll be soon complete. And it’s the wall that border security wanted so badly. This is the one. But now that it’s built, you never hear about the wall. They don’t talk about it anymore. They don’t talk about it anymore. It’s incredible. But the wall will soon be complete. We’ve invested $2.5 trillion in the US military and launched the first new branch of the US Armed Forces in nearly 75 years. The space force.

And Al, in honor of you, we have passed VA Choice and VA Accountability, Al. That guy’s been bugging me for years. Al has been bugging me. What’s in that hat, Al? Let me see. Let me… It’s something. Al, he’s been bugging me for years. Did you ever think we’d get VA Choice, VA Accountability? Did you ever really believe it? Thank you, Al.

I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal, a disaster. $150 billion we paid Iran for a basically short term deal. And we gave them… What’s more impressive, we also gave them $1.8 billion in cash. Cash. Many plane loads. You know what that took? Many, many plane loads, $1.8 billion. I said bad. That’s when I realized how powerful a president is in the United States. When a president has the right, which by the way, I don’t believe he did have that right, okay? When a president has the right to go into the banks and take out $1.8 billion and hand it to people that hate our guts, that’s power. That’s power. I don’t believe he had the right to do it.

I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the US embassy in Jerusalem. I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and we achieved the first breakthrough in the Middle East in 25 years. You saw that just last week. UAE, highly respected. Mohamed, highly respected. UAE and Israel. And now they’re all going to be coming in. Now they’re all saying, “How come you didn’t tell us about this?” You’ll have peace in the Middle East. And yet we’re moving our trips out. It’s pretty amazing, actually. We’ll get no credit for it, but that’s all right. Remember that Kaitlan. Cover that properly, Kaitlan. We like Kaitlan. Together, we’ve spent the last four years cleaning up 47 years of Biden disasters. Joe Biden has spent his entire career on the wrong side of history. He supported NAFTA. China’s entry. He’s done so many things. This man, if you look at what he’s done, we went into a deal, the Korea, you know about the Korea deal? Hillary Clinton’s deal, along with Biden. They promised 250,000 jobs, right? 250,000 jobs. And they were right. Except all those jobs went to South Korea. They didn’t come to us.

He wants mass amnesty. He wants illegal aliens to be taken care of, healthcare and every other way. And he wants to raise your taxes, [inaudible 00:09:52]. Look, your taxes are going to go through the roof. He’s going to destroy your health care. He’s going to have socialized medicine. Remember what Obama said 28 times? You can keep your doctor. You can keep your plan. Turned out to be a lie. Now you’re going to lose your doctor again. And we’re going to lose 185 million people who have private health insurance. Who has private health insurance here? And you love it, right? You love it. It’s luxury. It’s good. It’s beautiful. And you have the greatest, you’re going to lose it. Hate to tell you. Under his plan, you’re going to lose your private healthcare. So here’s a guy, I go into Texas two weeks ago. We had, by the way, on the highway and the roadways, thousands and thousands of people like lined up on the runway in New Hampshire, by the way. What happened to those people? But we had thousands and thousands of people. So I’m in Texas. I’m also, last week in Florida, we got total endorsement from all of the sheriffs. All over Florida. Ohio, many places. But think of Texas. He’s against oil and gas. He’s against guns. And he’s against religion. So you’re in Texas, you’re in Texas, where I’m winning by a lot. They say Texas is very close. I don’t think so. They said that last time too. Remember they said it last time? For them to call it early, you have to be really. So I heard, for a year, Texas is going to be very close. It’s going to be, everybody believed that except for the people that lived in Texas. So at 8:00, the polls close. And they said, “Donald Trump has won the state of Texas.” Simultaneously with the closing.

I’m now running in Texas against a man who’s against oil, guns, and God. How do you win Texas? I said this, you could bring George Washington back as your Presidential candidate. You could bring Abraham Lincoln. Let’s put him as the Vice Presidential candidate. Run in Texas and other states, you couldn’t win. You couldn’t win. Now, they’re not going to win. We’re going to win this. And you’re against the oil stuff too. Because his whole thing on oil, no fracking, no this, no that. New England has the highest energy costs in the United States. And you know why? Because Governor Cuomo will not let a pipeline go across the tip of New York State so that oil and gas, of which we have plenty, can come.

And do you know where you buy your energy from? Russia. Did you know that? You have ships, much of it from Russia, because Governor Cuomo, New York won’t allow a pipeline and they’re desperate to have something happen in upper New York State. And those are great people, but they’ve been treated very badly. But they won’t allow a pipeline. By not allowing a pipeline, we’re trying to do it through essentially eminent domain. By not allowing a pipeline to go through upper New York State and create a lot of jobs for them, you have the highest energy prices in the United States by far. Thank you New York. Thank you. Thank you Governor Cuomo. Biden voted for the Iraq war. I was against the Iraq war. He opposed a mission to take out Osama bin Laden. He opposed the killing of Soleimani. You remember that one?

He oversaw the rise of ISIS and he cheered the rise of China as a positive development for America and for the world. That’s not a positive development. Before they went into the WTO, China was flat lined. For years and years and decades, flat lined. And then they got into the WTO and a lot of bad things happened. First China’s stole our jobs, plundered our intellectual property and unleashed the virus. And now China is trying to just hug and kiss Joe Biden. They want him so badly. Look, if you like China, you should vote for Biden, that I can tell you.

How about his son? You think the son, maybe there’s a conflict? How about his son? Where’s Hunter? Where is Hunter? Where is Hunter? Does anybody know? Where’s Hunter? He’s in another country right now, probably, ripping off another country. No, as soon as Biden became vice president, bad things happened with respect to a Hunter. If that happened with respect to my family, I wouldn’t be standing. I guarantee you that. I guarantee you that. What a disgrace. What a disgrace. Ukraine. And it’s not just Ukraine and it’s not just China. But he goes into China, takes out $1.5 billion to manage, and he knows nothing, and he wasn’t even employed. He got thrown out of the armed services. So give me a break. It’s a disgrace, what’s happening.

There’s a double… There’s a thing happening with the media like nobody’s ever seen before. These people right here. Because if that happened to a Republican, in particular. If any of that stuff happened to me, it would be brutal. But it happened to him. They don’t want to talk about it.

And how about the questions asked by Anderson Cooper yesterday? Anderson Cooper. He’s interviewed me a lot over the years and I always got along with him, but they were tough interviews. Did you hear the questions? And Biden kept looking down. I think he was reading the answers off a teleprompter. Right? I think he was reading the answers off a teleprompter. And that’s happened before. And how about David Muir of ABC? He’s a nice guy, right? How soft were those questions? How soft were those? They don’t ask me questions like that. They got fire pouring out of their eyes. No. “Mr. Vice President, what do you think of this? How was your breakfast, sir? Did you enjoy it?” When I banned travel from China Biden, called it hysterical and xenophobic. He even used, somewhere along the line, the word racist. He always figures, they always want to get that word in there.

If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands of more Americans would have died. But instead my decision, saved thousands and thousands of lives. And then we banned Europe very early because I saw what was going on, really in Italy and Spain and France. When the virus arrived, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II. Mike Pence did a great job. We produced more than 100,000 ventilators within weeks. And not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator, not one. You heard all about, and now we’re producing ventilators. Hard to produce. Expensive, complex. We’re producing them now for the rest of the world. 188 countries were affected by this. We pioneered advances in treatment that have reduced the monthly rate. And you look at this, the mortality rate has been reduced by 85% since April. Think of that. 85% since April.

Under Operation Warp Speed, three different vaccines are right now in final stage trials. If you go back three years, that would have been something that would have been impossible to even discuss. It would have taken years. We will produce a vaccine this year and together we will defeat the virus. It’s already getting defeated.

And by the way, another big Democrat hoax. Another big hoax. I want football back. I’m the one that’s been saying. Is that a correct statement? I want football back. These are young, strong guys. They’re not going to be affected by the virus. If you look at it, it’s generally older people. Older people that have heart conditions, that have diabetes, that have problems. These are big strong guys. They’ll be just fine. But I want football back. I’ve been calling for football to be back, including Big 10. Big 10, get with it. Open up your season, Big 10.

And the Dems don’t want it back for political reasons. But now their new line… This is like Russia, Russia, Russia. All this crap they come up with. Now their new line is they are trying to blame me and keep football shut down. They want to keep it shut down. And they’re saying that President Trump shut it down. I’m the one that wants it open. So they’re reversing it. They’re playing a big con game. It’s just a con game. And that’s what we’re dealing with. And we have to defeat them on November 3rd. I want football back and Big 10 open. And now the other day, Joe Biden came up with a plan to impose a blanket shutdown. He’d be willing to do another blanket. And we had to do it. We blanket, we shut down. We saved millions of lives. Instead of the number we have today, 175,000, we could have had 2 million today instead. It would have been unacceptable, unsustainable. Unsustainable. We did everything right. We did it right. We closed it down. We stopped China. We stopped Europe. Now we’re opening it up and we’re opening it up to record numbers, despite the fact that the Democrats are keeping their states shut down and hurting people that live in those states, shut down as long as possible.

But now Biden wants to do another blanket shutdown, possibly, that would decimate the economy and cause suicides, drug overdoses, alcohol abuse, heart attacks, joblessness. You’d have jobs, all of the problems that it causes. Because it’s not just a one sided equation. A shut down causes big problems also. And at this point, when the economy is roaring back. We had record job numbers this last quarter, over 9 million jobs. We’re going to throw that all out? We have a market… You know, your stock market. Who has 401k’s here? Your 401k’s and your stocks, when you have stocks, would be obliterated. And right now, we have just, on two of your markets, as you know, S&P and NASDAQ, you’re at new records. And you’re about to hit another new record.

Think of it. Who would have thought the stock market? And hopefully we’re at the end of this horrible China virus. Came from China. They should have stopped it and they did. But who would have thought, just who would have thought that the stock market is at record levels right now? Record levels.

And everything else is going to follow. Before the virus, we created an economic miracle and now we’re doing it again. We did the Paycheck Protection Program where we saved more than 200,000 jobs in New Hampshire alone. 200,000, right?

Over the past three months, we’ve gained so many different, if you look at retail numbers. Take a look at our retail numbers. They’re literally at records. Look at some of the numbers be announced by companies. They’re at records. Can you imagine giving that all up and starting again? It’s not acceptable. If I’m reelected, we will create 10 million jobs over the next 10 months, and we’ll do that easily. The Biden agenda, with big tax increases and big regulation increases, would immediately kill everything. You will go into a depression. And I’m very good at predicting this. You will go into a depression the likes of which this country has not seen since 1929, and who knows, maybe worse than that. They are playing a suicide mission.

… be worse than that. They are playing a suicide mission if they want to raise your taxes. They want to raise your taxes by $4 trillion. And that’s going to be almost everybody. They’re saying for the rich. No, not for the rich. They’re going to be raising everybody’s taxes almost. Joe Biden is running on the most extreme far left platform of any nominee in American history and of our foreign adversaries, we’re devising a plan to destroy the United States from within. All they have to look is at the Biden Harris. How about her? Is she a beauty? What a beauty that is.

They pick a woman who starts off… She starts off sort of strong. She’s one of the favorites. Within a period of a few months, she goes down, down 15, 12, 11, nine, eight, five, three, two. Then she goes, “I’m going to leave because I’ve decided that I want to leave. I want to leave.” She left because she wouldn’t have gotten any votes. She was terrible. This would be your president possibly. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. I want to see the first woman president also, but I don’t want to see a woman president get into that position the way she do it and she’s not competent. She’s not competent. They’re all saying we want Ivanka. I don’t blame them. They want to eliminate America’s borders in the middle of a pandemic, suspend all deportations, restore catch and release, and expand horrible, dangerous, disgusting sanctuary cities. They want to give illegal aliens government healthcare and taxpayer funded lawyers. That’s what we need is more lawyers. Let’s get some more lawyers into the act. They want to end national security travel bands from jihadist nations, very dangerous, and increase refugee admissions by 700%. This is in the Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie, you know crazy Bernie. A lot of his people are going to vote for me just like they did last time. You know why? Because of trade. Because I agree with Bernie Sanders, but my trade policies are much tougher than his and I’m able to do it. All you have to do is how is China doing last year with my trade policy? Not too well. And we had the best year we’ve ever had.

We’re going to get a lot of Bernie Sanders voters because they like my attitude on trade. They really like it because I’ve been telling people for years our country is being ripped off by China and many other countries, including, I hate to say it, our allies. Our allies have been ripping us big. And you heard me say last night, NATO, I got $130 billion from them first time going up to $400 billion a year from NATO countries, by saying, “You got to do it. You got to do it.” And general Secretary Stoltenberg said it can’t be done. He could not believe it. He’s actually my biggest fan and nobody ever calls him for a quote. Call him sometime.

They want to abolish cash bail and cut funding for law enforcement. They want to end… We want to increase law enforcement, not cut law enforcement. And by the way, Pat Lynch is a great guy, New York, New York. Really great, New York’s finest, right? Their rights have been taken away from them. Literally they’re not allowed to do their job, but Pay Lynch, he said the first time in history that they know of New York’s finest have endorsed a candidate. The candidate is Donald Trump. First time they’ve done it.

All over the country, the sheriffs of Florida, all of Texas, all over the country, Ohio, law enforcement’s endorsing Trump. I cannot imagine them getting any law enforcement endorsements. If they do, please let me know and we’ll have a little discussion. We’ll ask why did that happen? They want to end school choice and ban charter schools. They want to abolish American energy, including all of the things I said before. And add to that coal and add to that shale. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, a bright future, the American dream for all Americans. There is no limit to what we can achieve with four more years. So in conclusion, I have to say this. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing super power of the world that’s happening already. We will end our reliance on China once and for all. We’ll do it here. Like we used to do in the good old days before we owed trillions of dollars. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities and neighborhoods and ban sanctuary cities.

We will kill our terrorist’s enemies as we’ve been doing while keeping America out of the endless foreign Wars. I go to Dover and I greet these incredible families of soldiers that have been so sadly killed. So sadly killed. It’s such a shame. I go to the hospital, I go to Walter Reed Medical Center. It’s incredible. The doctors are so talented. I see what they can do, but soldiers so badly hurt. And they’re really acting as police. They’re acting as police. Now, we’re very low in Afghanistan now in terms of numbers of troops. We’re getting out. We’ll be getting out soon. We’re very low in Iraq. We’re very low in Syria, except we kept the oil. We left some behind for the oil. If you don’t mind, we kept the oil. We should have kept the oil in Iraq like I’ve been saying.

We’ll appoint prosecutors, judges, and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda, which is what we have in many cases right now. The next president will be in my opinion, responsible for two, three, four, and maybe, maybe even five US Supreme Court Justices. You better vote for me, you better vote for me or you’re going to have the greatest depression you’ve ever seen. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. Second amendment.

We will surprise medical billing require, it’s already done. I signed it. Nobody can believe I did it. Price transparency. You know what that is? Do you know how big that is? Where you’re able to actually negotiate with hospitals, see their prices, compare it. You know who likes it? Good hospitals and good doctors. Other people don’t like it. It’s the biggest thing and nobody even talks about it, but I’ve already put it into effect. The bad news is it goes into effect on January 1st. You better make sure you elect me so I get credit for it.

Otherwise, could you imagine if sleepy Joe got in and medical prices and drug prices and everything had dropped, but he said, “I wonder what happened?” And I did it all. I’ll be so angry at New Hampshire. I’ll never speak to you again. Now, all these things, what we’re doing with drugs, we instituted a favored nations laws. We instituted favored nations. That’s going to drop your prices 50, 60, 70%. And I’m the only president in 51 years, last year, drug prices went down a little, not much, but they went down the first time in 51 years. Favored nations could drop at 50, 60, or 70%. On top of that, I instituted rebates where the rebates go toward price reductions and back to the customer instead of to a middleman. So we will protect Medicare and we will protect Social Security and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.

America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to plant its beautiful American flag. Do we love our American flag? Or Mars. Above all, we will teach our children to love our country, to honor our history and be inspired by the words of the New Hampshire state motto. Have you ever heard of these words? Live free or die. Live free or die. Vote for those people. And you do, you have a great governor. Vote for your people, vote for your governor. You have a great governor. From Portsmouth to Dixville from Concord to Keene. I know a friend from Keene. Great guy. I had a friend from Keene a long time. Keene, New Hampshire. And Merrimack to Manchester, we will fight for every job, every family and every neighborhood. We will fight for every vote. We have to win. We have no choice. Can I be honest with you? We’re working hard. We’re all working. I don’t have to do this. I could get off that beautiful plane that used to be black and white with a red stripe. That was mine. But that’s Air Force one. I get off that beautiful plane. I could come up and say, “Ladies and gentlemen of New Hampshire, you have no choice. You have to vote for me because if you don’t, you’ll be put in radical lefties. You’ll have a depression. Your stocks will be worthless. Your 401ks will be gone. There’ll be crime all over your streets. So I’m not going to work at all. I’m leaving now, but you have to vote for me because you have no choice.” Right? I could say it. Right? Right?

We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trail, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads. Won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism and made America the greatest nation in the history of the world and we are making it greater. We will be greater than ever before. Incredible citizens like you, the people of New Hampshire, helped build this country. And together we are taking back our country. We are not going to let the radical left socialists or communists take our country. We’re not going to let it.

We’re returning power to you the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one nation under God. And we don’t take the beautiful word God out of our Pledge of Allegiance, do we? They did it twice. They it twice. Then they say, “Well, we didn’t mean that.” Oh, I see. I was listening once they said, “That’s right.” You don’t know what it is, what happened? What happened? They did it on purpose. They did it twice. That’s where they’re coming from. You can be fools and you can be fooled, but that’s where they’re coming from. So don’t be surprised, but they’re not going to get there. We’re not going to let it happen. We’re not going to let our country be destroyed by a bunch of nut jobs.

America will soon be thriving like never before and together with the people of New Hampshire that have meant so much to me, and I brought down opioid and I brought down drug problems for you by 19% and nobody even talks about it. 19. I talk about New Hampshire a lot because you had one of the proportionally worst problems of any country, of any state in this incredible country. You had one of the worst problems of any of the states. And I talk about you a lot. It was incredible. And you still have. But we brought it down 19% and people are absolutely shocked.

If it weren’t for the China plague, the number would be 25 or 30%. That really hurt us because people sort of went back to some old ways because they don’t want to be shut down any longer. Joe, don’t you understand that? They don’t want to be shut down. So I worked very hard on that for this state and for other states, but this was a state that was so severely impacted with the drug problem. That wall is stopping them and it’s stopping them like never before. It’s stopping them like never before.

I want to thank New Hampshire for all you’ve done for me. I want to thank New Hampshire. You were my first victory, as I said, but you are going to lead a nation to the most important victory and the most important election that we’ve ever had. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you.


Thank you, thank you. So we begin, Oklahoma, we begin. Thank you, Oklahoma. And thank you to Vice President Mike Pence. We begin, we begin our campaign. Thank you. We begin our campaign and I just want to thank all of you, you are warriors. I’ve been watching the fake news for weeks now, and everything is negative. Don’t go, don’t come, don’t do anything. Today it was like, I’ve never seen anything like it. I’ve never seen anything like it. You are warriors, thank you. We had some very bad people outside. We had some very bad people outside, they were doing bad things. But I really do, I appreciate it. We have just a tremendous group of people in Oklahoma. And I hear, I hear from your two great Senators and your governor that we’re doing very well in Oklahoma, that’s the word. That’s the word. I stand before you today to declare the silent majority is stronger than ever before. Five months from now, we’re going to defeat sleepy Joe Biden. Boy, does he get a pass from these people, huh? We’re going to stop the radical left. We’re going to build a future of safety and opportunity for Americans of every race, color, religion, and creed. Republicans are the party of liberty, equality, and justice for all. We are the party of Abraham Lincoln and we are the party of law and order. Think of what we’ve done. We will have close to 300 federal judges appointed and approved by the end of my first time, that’s an all time record. That’s an all time record. I’ve always heard how important judges are. Now we know how important they are. Think of that over 300, around 300, by the end of the term. And when we have another four years, we’re going to have a big, big percentage of the total number. Very important, November 3rd.

And two great Supreme Court judges. So we have two justices of the Supreme Court, Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, they’re great. They are, they’re great. We have two. And we could get a few more, yeah, we can get a few more. We’ve spent over $2 trillion to completely rebuild the unmatched strength and power of the United States Military. And all of that incredible equipment, whether it’s submarines or missiles or rockets or jet fighters, bombers, it’s all built in the USA. We passed V.A. Choice. Thank you very much, Jim. Where’s my Senator? Jim Inhofe, you better vote for him, he’s running, he’s great.

But we’ll get to him and James Lankford in a second, two great Senators. You have two great senators. So we passed V.A. Choice. So if you’re a veteran, for years and years, they’ve wanted to do it for almost 50 years, we got it done. We get a lot of things done. And so if you’re a veteran and you have to wait on line for one week, two weeks, three weeks, five weeks, seven weeks, two months. What happens is you go outside, you get a private doctor, you get fixed up and they pay your bill. We take care of the bill. We take care of the bill and you get immediate service. It’s never happened before. And our approval rating at the V.A. is now 91%, that’s how good it is. Never been anywhere near that number. Never been anywhere near that number.
And V.A. accountability, we had a lot of bad people in the V.A. People that didn’t love our vets, people that were sadistic, people that stole, a lot of bad people. You couldn’t get rid of them because they were, let’s say it could be unions, it could be civil service, right, let’s say, let’s just say. And so you couldn’t get it done. That was another one for decades and decades, they wanted to get it changed. And I got it done with those people and your Congressman, your Congressman who I’m going to introduce. V.A. accountability, and now somebody treats our veterans badly and we look at them and what do we say? We say, you’re fired, get out, right? Get out.

They got rid of a lot of bad people that were there for a long time. Sort of like me in Washington, draining the swamp. I never knew it was so deep. But it’s happening. It’s happening, I never knew it was so deep. It’s deep and thick and a lot of bad characters. Thank you. We’re lowering the price of prescription drugs, making our allies pay their fair share. They get a big bargain on drug prices and enacting fair trade deals. That finally, finally, after all these years put America first. I’ve been saying it for a long time. We passed the largest tax cuts in the history of our country. The Democrats want to raise your taxes. Tell me about that. Tell me about that. I guess I’m old fashioned. All my life, all my life, I heard politicians want to lower taxes, not raise them. If you could lower him, you couldn’t lose. The Democrats want to substantially raise your taxes. How do you figure that? How do you figure that? And regulation cuts, we passed more regulation cuts than any administration in the history of our country. And with the help of our great energy workers, many of them come from the great state of Oklahoma. Do you ever notice that Biden, no, do you ever notice that Biden oftentimes gets the state wrong? He’s in Iowa and he says it’s good to be in Idaho. No, no, you’re in Iowa. He’s in New Hampshire and he says it’s great to be in Ohio. No, no, no, you’re in New Hampshire. That happens to him all the time, hasn’t happened to me yet. When that happens, there’s nothing you can do to make up for it. You might as well just walk off the stage because the speech is a disaster. Right, right. But we just turned the United States into the dominant energy super power of the world, of the world. And because of the Chinese virus, what happened about three months ago, it looked like we were in big trouble and we were, and I got it back together. I called Russia. Right, I called Russia.

I called Saudi Arabia and believe it or not, I called Mexico. Mexico was a little bit tough. That’s called OPEC Plus, did you ever hear of OPEC Plus. That’s OPEC Plus plus. And we got them to do the right thing and we have our energy back to almost $40 a barrel, meaning you have an energy business again. Almost $40 a barrel. Couple of months ago, it was zero and we were going to lose 10 million energy jobs, 10 million jobs. So Texas and Oklahoma and North Dakota, and many other states would have been hurt. Now you think you’re going to be hurt there. You try putting AOC in judge of your energy. That will make the pandemic look like child’s play to the people in energy. She has one problem, it’s called petroleum. No president or administration has done more in the first three and a half years than the Trump administration. Not even close. Nobody.

Our incredible success in rebuilding America stands in stark contrast to the extremism and destruction and violence of the radical left. We just saw it outside. We just saw it outside, you saw these thugs that came along. These people, call them protesters, isn’t it beautiful, it’s so beautiful. No, they’re so wonderful. They call them the Boston Tea Party. They’re so wonderful. Yeah, they call them … You ever watch fake news, CNN, you ever watch? [inaudible 00:12:16]

How about the CNN anchor, how about the CNN anchor, you know, did a little shave job in the head, which is fine. And he’s standing in front of a building saying, “things are very peaceful here.” And the building is, it looks like the biggest fire I’ve ever seen. The whole town is burning. It’s like the biggest fire. And he said, “Things are very good here, Anderson. I think it’s great. These are wonderful people, Anderson.” Did you ever see that? It looked like the world was coming to an end. And we did something in Minneapolis after watching for three or four days, I called, I said, “You got to get … you can’t protect yourselves.” I got them to take 8,000 National Guardsmen. And in one hour it all ended and they rode through the next three weeks with no problem.

And we did the same thing in other cities. But how about Seattle? Isn’t that great? So they take over a big chunk of a city called Seattle. I mean, we’re not talking about some little place, we’re talking about Seattle. Have you ever been to Seattle? They took over a big chunk and the governor, who’s radical left, all of these places I talk about are Democrat, you know that, every one of them, every one of them. And I’d have an offer out, I said, “Anytime you want we’ll come in, we’ll straighten it out in one hour or less.” Now I may be wrong, but it’s probably better for us to just watch that disaster.

I flew in with some of our great congressmen, who we’re going to introduce it a second. And I said to them, “Congressmen, what do you think? I can straighten it out fast, should we just go in? No, sir. Let it simmer for a little while. Let people see what radical left Democrats will do to our country.” But Americans have watched left wing radicals, burn down buildings, loot businesses, destroy private property, injure hundreds of dedicated police offices. These police officers, they get injured, they don’t complain. They’re incredible. And injure thousands upon thousands of people only to hear the radical fake news say what a beautiful rally it was. And they never talk about COVID. They don’t talk about, when you see 25,000 people walking down Fifth Avenue or walking down a street of a Democrat run city, you never hear them saying, they’re not wearing their mask. You don’t hear their say, as they’re breaking windows and running in. And then when I say the looters, the anarchists, the agitators, they say, “What a terrible thing for our president to say, what a terrible thing.”

But you don’t hear them talking about COVID, COVID, to be specific, COVID-19. That name gets further and further away from China, as opposed to calling it the Chinese virus. And despite the fact that we … I have done a phenomenal job with it, I shut down the United States to very heavily infected but all people from China in late January, which is months earlier than other people would have done it, if they would have done it at all. I saved hundreds of thousands of lives. We don’t ever get even a mention. Then I closed it down to Europe early, closed it down because I saw what was happening. And by the way, most people said, don’t do it, don’t do it. We saved hundreds of thousands of lives and all we do is get hit on like we’re terrible. And what we’ve done with the ventilators and with the medical equipment. And with testing, you know, testing is a double edged sword. We’ve tested now 25 million people. It’s probably 20 million people more than anybody else. Germany’s done a lot. South Korea has done a lot.

They called me, they said, the job you’re doing … Here’s the bad part. When you do testing to that extent, you’re going to find more people, you’re going to find more cases. So I said to my people slow the testing down, please. They test and they test. We had tests and people don’t know what’s going on. We got tests, we got another one over here. The young man’s 10-years-old. He’s got the sniffles. He’ll recover in about 15 minutes. That’s a case, add him to it. That’s okay. That’s a case. I was actually with a very nice man, very good man, even though he’s very liberal, the Governor of New Jersey, right? We know him? Now listen, he said to me, something that’s amazing. New Jersey was very heavily hit, very hard hit, thousands of people. He said with thousands of people that died, thousands of people, there was only one person that died under the age of 18. Would you believe that? Which tells me one thing, that kids are much stronger than us.

When you see a little kid running around say, “Boy, oh, boy, do you have a great immune system? How about a piece of your immune system?” They don’t even know about this. Let’s open the schools, please. Open the schools. Open the schools. We got to get them open. In the fall, we got to get them open. The unhinged left wing mob is trying to vandalize our history, desecrate our monuments, our beautiful monuments. Tear down our statues and punish, cancel and persecute anyone who does not conform to their demands for absolute and total control. We’re not conforming, that’s why we’re here, actually. This cruel campaign of censorship and exclusion violates everything we hold dear as Americans. They want to demolish our heritage so they can impose their new oppressive regime in its place. They want to defund and dissolve our police departments, think of that.

And I heard it for the first time two weeks ago, I said, “Well, that one, I mean, they’re only kidding.” I said, “They’re only, they’re not.” Minneapolis, you what’s going on. They’re not kidding. They got a lot of problems. They’ll have a lot of problems. Hey, it’s 1:00 o’clock in the morning and a very tough, I’ve used the word on occasion, hombre, a very tough hombre is breaking into the window of a young woman whose husband is away as a traveling salesman or whatever he may do. And you call 911 and they say, “I’m sorry, this number’s no longer working.” By the way, you have many cases like that, many, many, many. Whether it’s a young woman, an old woman, a young man or an old man and you’re sleeping. So what are you going to do, right? So they want to defund. They really do, this as a serious movement. And in Minneapolis, the council’s already passed it. In Seattle, you see what’s going on there, it’s even worse, okay. These people are stone cold crazy. They’re crazy.

So if you want to save your [inaudible 00:21:57], you want to say that beautiful heritage of ours, we have a great heritage. We’re a great country. You are so lucky I’m president, that’s all I can tell you.

People have come up to me, say, “How do you take it?” I say, “Do I have a choice? Do I have a choice?” We deal with a lot of bad people, but we’re winning. And every once in a while, I’ll have one of these days where I’m hit left and right, left and right, like even this great event. If you could have seen outside or if you could have heard the reports, the reports, “Oh, it’s COVID.” It’s this again. By the way, it’s a disease without question, has more names than any disease in history. I can name, “Kung flu.” I can name, 19 different versions of names. Many call it a virus, which it is. Many call it a flu, what difference? I think we have 19 or 20 versions of the name. But they say to me, “Where do you get the energy?” I say, “I don’t have a choice. I don’t have a choice.” It was interesting, to show you how fake they are, you might’ve seen it. So last week they called me and they say, “Sir, West Point, West Point, we’re ready.” I said, “Oh, that’s right. I have to make the commencement speech at West Point.”

You know, they delayed it for six weeks because of COVID. So they delayed it and I went there. 1,106 cadets were graduated and beautiful. Beautiful [inaudible 00:00:24:14]. Just to show you how bad the fake news is, so they say to me, “Sir, we’re ready to go.” I say, “Let’s go.” This is after saying hello to a lot of cadets, inspecting little areas of a building, that was very exciting. Actually, it’s beautiful, very old. Studied a lot of our great generals, some of our presidents that went there. West Point is beautiful, right on the Hudson River. But after an hour, the general that runs it is a fantastic guy. After an hour, we land, we do some more inspections and they say, “Sir, are you ready? Yes, I am.” So we walked like the equivalent of about three blocks, which is fine. We go onstage, which is fine. They make speeches, then I make a speech that lasted a long time. I don’t know, maybe 45 minutes, maybe longer, I don’t know but a long time. The sun is pouring down on me, okay.

But they said to me before the speech, “Sir, would you like to salute each cadet, each single cadet? Or maybe there’ll be in groups of two. Would you like to salute? Like this? Yes.” Like this, almost 600 times. You know what that is? 600 times. Thank God they were in twos because let me tell you, you do that 600 times, you go home and you say it’s like a workout without a weight, right? 600 times. So I did that. Then the incredible helicopters, brand new gorgeous helicopters, the Apaches and the other new ones that we just bought.

Helicopters, the Apaches and the other new ones that we just bought. So they fly over and the kids throw the hats in the air, it’s beautiful, it really is. It was a beautiful day and we’re all finished. I was on the stage for hours, hours, sun, I came home, I had a nice tan, meaning I had a nice sunburn. The sun’s [inaudible 00:26:30] like that, but I make this speech. I salute for probably an hour and a half, maybe more, but around that. Watch. If I’m off by two minutes they’ll say, “He exaggerated. It was only an hour and 25 minutes. He exaggerated, he lied, he lied, he’s a liar.” These people are sick, the fake news.

So then I finish saluting my final salute, I said, “Thank goodness. Thank you very much.” Think of it. So essentially almost 600 times. Now the general says, “Sir, are you ready?” I said, “I’m ready General, where are we going now?” You have to understand I left early in the morning to get there. Now it’s sort of late in the afternoon. A lot of these fakers were with us. So they know. He said, ” Sir, we can now leave the stage.” I said, “Great general, let’s go, I’ll follow you,” and he goes like this, “Right here, sir,” and I walked off. The stage was higher than this one and the ramp was probably 10 yards long. I say, “General.” Now you got to understand, I have the whole corps of cadets looking at me and I want them to love their president, I did this big thing. I love them, I love them. They’re incredible, and they do. I said, “General, I’ve got myself a problem, general.” Because I’m wearing leather bottom shoes which is good if you’re walking on flat surfaces. It’s not good for ramps and if I fall down, look at all those press back there, look at them. This was a steel ramp, you all saw it because everybody saw it. This was a steel ramp. It had no handrail, it was like an ice skating rink, and I said, “General, I have a problem,” and he didn’t understand that at first. I said, “There’s no way.” He understood, I just saluted almost 600 times. I just made a big speech. I sat for other speeches. I’m being baked. I’m being baked like a cake. I said, “General, there’s no way I can make it down that ramp without falling on my ass, General. I have no railing.”

It’s true. So I said, “Is there like something else around?” “Sir, the ramp is ready to go.” “Grab me sir, grab me.” I didn’t really want to grab him. You know why? Because I said, “That will be a story too.” So now I have a choice. I can stay up there for another couple of hours and wait till I’m rescued or I can go down this really steep, really, really, really … It’s an ice skating rink, it’s brutal. So I said, “General, get ready because I may grab you so fast.” Because I can’t fall with the fake news watching. If I fall, if I fall, I remember when President Ford fell out of the plane, do you remember? I remember when another president, nice man, threw up in Japan, and they did slow motion replays. It’s true, right? “I don’t want that, general.” Now he’s standing there, big strong guy, and he’s got these shoes but they’re loaded with rubber on the bottom because I looked, the first thing I did, I looked at his shoes. Then I looked at mine. Very, very slippery. So I end up saying, “Okay, general, let’s go. I will only grab you if I need you. That’s not a good story. Falling would be a disaster. It turned out to be worse than anything, I would have been better off if I fell and slid down the damn ramp. Right? So what happens is I start the journey, inch by inch, right? I was really bent over too. I didn’t like that. I didn’t like this picture. This picture I’m sure will be an ad by the fakers. So I was bent over, right? Bent over like this. Then we finally reached almost the end and the fake news, the most dishonest human beings, they cut it off. You know why? Because when I was 10 feet short, I said, “General, I’m sorry,” and I ran down the rest, right? I looked very handsome. That was the only good. I wouldn’t want to run down the whole thing because the fall there would be definitely bad. So I took these little steps, I ran down the last 10, and by the way their tape, take a look. In almost every instance, it ends just before I run, and they said, “Here was the number one trending story.”

I call my wife, I said, “How good was that speech? I thought it was a …” Hey look, I will tell you when I make good ones and bad ones. Like so far tonight, I’m average, but we’re having fun, we’re having fun. So far tonight, but I call my wife and I said, “How good was it, darling?” She said, “You’re trending number one.” I said to our great first lady, I said, “Let me ask you a question. Was it that good of a speech that I’m trending number one? Because I felt it was really good.” No no, they don’t even mention the speech. They mention the fact that you may have Parkinson’s disease. It’s true. It’s true. It’s true.

They say there is something wrong with our president. I’ll let you know if there’s something wrong, okay? I’ll let you know if there’s something, I’ll tell you what, there’s something wrong with Biden, that I could tell you.

So then my wife said, “Well it wasn’t only the ramp. Did you have water?” I said, “Yeah. I was speaking for a long time. I didn’t want to drink it, but I wanted to wet my lips a little bit.” You’re drinking, you’re working hard up there with the sun pouring down on you. I love this location, the sun’s like this. This way they save on lighting, right? That’s why they did it probably. So what happens is I said, “What does it have to do with water?” They said, “You couldn’t lift your hand up to your mouth with water.” I said, “I just saluted 600 times like this, and this was before I saluted, so what’s the problem?” She said, “Well I know what you did. You had on a very good red tie that’s sort of expensive.” It’s silk because they look better. They have a better sheen to them. And I don’t want to get water on the tie, and I don’t want to drink much, so I lift it up, the water.

I see we have a little glass of water. Where the hell did this water come from? Where did it come from? I look down at my tie because I’ve done it. I’ve taken water and it spills down onto your tie, doesn’t look good for a long time and frankly, the tie is never the same. So I put it up to my lip and then I say, “[inaudible 00:35:36]”, and they gave me another disease. They gave me another disease. Anyway, that’s a long story, but here’s the story. I have lived with more the ramp than the water but I have lived with the ramp and the water since I left West Point. Not one media group said I made a good speech or I made a great speech, but the kids loved it because they broke their barrier which wasn’t good in terms of COVID but they broke their barrier and they wanted to shake hands, they wanted to … I don’t want to tell anybody, but there were a couple of kids, they put out their hand, I actually shook their hand, okay? I actually shook them. Because they were excited. They were excited. They were with their president. They were excited. The most beautiful young people. Men, women, the most beautiful young people you’ve ever seen. So think of how you feel if you’re me. I go there, how did I do? “Sir, that was a great speech.” You know all my people, “Sir, that was one of your best, that was great.” I said, “That’s great, I agree, it was a good speech. I like that speech.” They don’t mention the speech but they have been going down this ramp [inaudible 00:37:36]. It’s so unfair. It really is. So unfair. They are among the most dishonest people anywhere on earth. They’re bad people. Bad people.

Okay, that’s enough of that. I wanted to tell that story. Does everybody understand that story? The left-wing anarchists tore down a statue of Thomas Jefferson. Now we’re getting into the real stuff. They decapitated a statue of Christopher Columbus, except in New York when the Italians surrounded it. They didn’t have too much of a chance. Those Italians, I love the Italians. They heard they were going to rip down their beautiful Christopher Columbus and all of a sudden they circle that thing. They didn’t do too well in hurting Christopher, did they? Thank you to our Italian population, we’re very proud of you, right? Two days ago, leftist radicals in Portland, Oregon ripped down a statue of George Washington and wrapped it in an American flag and set the American flag on fire. Democrat, all Democrat. Everything I tell you is Democrat and you know we ought to do something, Mr. Senators, we have two great senators, we ought to come up with legislation that if you burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year. One year. Jim and James. Jim and James. We ought to do it. You know they talk about freedom of speech and I’m a big believer in freedom of speech, but that’s desecration, that’s a terrible thing they do. We used to have things, we don’t have them anymore because we want to be so open, so everything, and look what happens? We should have legislation that if somebody wants to burn the American flag and stomp on it or just burn it, they go to jail for one year, okay? In Seattle the Democrat mayor and the Democrat city council have surrendered control of six city blocks to an anarchist … Now these are anarchists, these are not protestors. You listen to the fake news, they say, “Oh, the protesters were lovely.” Could you imagine if people just even slightly to the right tried to take over Seattle? They’d have machine guns out to get them, but these people can take over the city, look at what they’ve done to businesspeople that have spent years and years building their business, and now they’re wiped out. Take it away. Governor Inslee ought to get his act together, get in there, I’ll help you, I’ll do whatever you want. I’m waiting for a call, I would love to do it. I would love to do it, it’ll take less than an hour and it’ll all be over with and you’ll have your city back.

Yet Biden remains silent in his basement in the face of this brutal assault on our nation and the values of our nation. Joe Biden has surrendered to his party and to the left-wing mob. He has no control. Does anybody honestly think he controls these radial maniacs? You know what he says to his wife when he’s not confusing her with his sister? “Get me the hell out of there. These people are crazy.” That’s what he says. He has absolutely no control. You know a lot of times I’ll make like a speech and I’ll have this beautiful paragraph come out criticizing every little aspect of the speech, beautiful, brilliant, but Joe didn’t … It’ll say, “A comment from Joe Biden,” but he didn’t say it. Professional people, great students in English lit, people that are very smart say it. Joe Biden said, and they’ll go into this highly complex paragraph, beautifully worded and I say, “Joe didn’t say that. Joe doesn’t even understand it.”

If Biden is elected, he will surrender your country to these mobsters 100%. Your 401(k)s, by the way, look at how we’re doing in the stock market. Just set another record with NASDAQ. NASDAQ. Your 401(k)s and money itself will be worthless. Your 401(k)s are doing very well unless I don’t want to say … If you were stupid I’d say, “Don’t sell. Don’t sell. It went down.” But we got it back up, and now NASDAQ, think of it. NASDAQ just set a record and I think you’re going to see a lot of records, and next year, if we don’t do anything stupid on November 3, you are going to have the greatest economic year we’ve ever had. That will be next year. If the Democrats gain power, than the rioters will be in charge and no one will be safe and no one will have control. Joe Biden is not the leader of his party. Joe Biden is a helpless puppet of the radical left, and he’s not radical left. I don’t think he knows what he is anymore, but he was never radical left, but he’s controlled by the radical left, and now he’s really controlled. His campaign staff even donated a lot of money to bail out rioters, looters and arsonists who ravaged Minneapolis. They bailed them out, they put up a lot of money to bail them out, the rioters, the looters and they were, they were the arsonists. They’ll say, “Oh, it’s terrible what he says about the people of our nation.” Maybe some of them aren’t even from our nation. The leftists try to do everything they can to stop us. Every hour of every day, including even violence and mayhem, they’ll do anything they can to stop us. Look what happened tonight. Look at what happened tonight. Law enforcement said, “Sir, they can’t be outside. It’s too dangerous.” We had a bunch of maniacs come and sort of attack our city. The mayor and the governor did a great job, but they were very violent people. Our people are not nearly as violent, but if they ever were, it would be a terrible, terrible day for the other side. Because I know our people. I know our people, but we will never submit to their threats and we will never let them destroy our nation. What they did tonight, I saw it on television coming in on Air Force One. One thing about Air Force One, we got plenty of televisions. We have televisions in closets. You open up the closet, got a television. We got a lot of televisions. It’s a great plane. Great everything. By the way, we ordered new ones. No president wanted to do it. They thought it was luxurious [inaudible 00:45:44] wait a minute, Air Force One is 31 years old. People don’t realize that. So I said, they gave me a charge, very early in my administration like how about the first week? “Sir, would you sign for this plane?” Now it’s actually two planes. “Would you sign for this plane? Air Force One?” I said, “How old is the original or the one we have now?” “Sir, it’s 31, 32 years.” I’d see people coming in from foreign lands that can’t compete with us, rich countries but they can’t compete with the … They have a brand new beautiful 747-800, and I say, “Wait a minute. That country has new and we have a 31-year, so somebody had to do …”

So the deal was made and it was made for a lot of money. I think it was $5.7 or $5.6 billion. Now in all fairness, it’s two planes and there’s a lot of stuff in those planes I won’t talk to you about. So I told Boeing, the head of Boeing, they said, “Sir, please, we’d like to get started on the planes,” I said, “I do too, but I’m not paying $5.6 billion, and I’m not paying $4.6 billion.” I said, ” It has to have a three on the front of it.” That’s a hell of a lot of money too, but it is a rather complex situation. They said, “No way.” No way. This was before Boeing had problems by the way, but Boeing is coming back. They’re coming back. Greatest company of the world and that’s their big problem. It had a couple of problems that didn’t work out. That was terrible, but the greatest. I think before that, it was the greatest company in the world. It made up a quarter, one quarter of a point, of our GDP. Think how big that is, one company. It was an unbelievable machine and then they made a plane and they did some foolish things and a terrible thing happened and all of a sudden they’ve gone through hell but you know what? They’re coming back, we’re ready to help them if they need it but they’re coming back in the coming [inaudible 00:47:56]. This was the Boeing before that and they were riding high, like I was before this thing came in, but we’re still riding high because you know what? On November 3 we’re going to win. We’re going to win. So they came in and they came in and they said, “No no no, we want $5.6 billion, whatever it was.” Whatever it was, if I’m a little bit off they’ll go crazy. Whatever, but it was a lot. $5.6 billion. Nope, got to have a three. Got to have a three, call me up. Nope, cancel the contract. I said, “Cancel the contract. I want it canceled.” I said, “General, can you cancel the contract?” He said, “Yes sir, I’m very proud of it.” “Oh good. Cancel it.” “Okay sir.” “By the way, to cancel it, do you have to pay anything?” “Yes sir. We have a cancellation fee sir.” “How much is it, general?” “$250 million.” I said, “What?” “Sir, we made a good deal. $250 million to kill.” “You mean if we don’t buy the plane we have to hand them $250 million.” That’s not good, right? Look at these two guys, they’re looking.

By the way, that’s like a good story compared to some I could tell you, like with aircraft carriers. So they said, “$250 million?” Or I always say this, or around that number, because if I’m off by a little bit, they say, “Oh, he exaggerates.” I look at numbers all day long. That’s what I look at for years now, for my whole life when you think of it. $250 million cancellation fee, sir. He was very proud of himself. What a great … I say, “General. Don’t cancel. Don’t cancel. Just tell them I don’t want the planes. Don’t put anything in writing, don’t put it in writing, general.” “Why sir?” “Because I don’t want to pay 250.” True. You hear that Jim? Jim Inhofe, he’s great. You hear that Jim? You know that story. He does a great job.

So here’s what happened, the bottom line. Boeing says, “No way, no way, no way.” The next week they say, “No way we’re doing it.” The next week they said, “How about $5 billion?” I said, “No way. No way.” The next week they said, “$4.8.” I said, “Nope. It’s got to have a 3 at the front of it. Don’t you understand, you dumb son of a bitch? Don’t you understand?” I turned out to be right. Turned out to be right. Nobody gets that. Nope. Got to have a three. Next day, they come back, “$4.5 is our best offer.” “Nope. I’m not doing it. I’m not doing it. Come back when you’re ready.” A month goes by, another month, they never heard about it, they never heard from me, they thought I was serious, I was, and they came back at $4 billion.

That’s a lot of money but I save like a billion six or a billion seven. Nobody wants to talk about it. Nobody wants to talk about it. When I get foreign nations to pay us billions and billions of dollars, nobody wants to talk about that. When I take soldiers out of countries because they’re not treating us properly, Germany is an example. I mean I have a German heritage like some of you. I said, “Let’s get it down from $50,000.00 to $25,000.00 because they’re delinquent. For many years they’re delinquent. They haven’t been paying what they’re supposed to be paying. They’re paying 1% instead of 2% and 2% is a very low number,” and they say, “Yes, we think by

And they say, yes, we think by 2030, maybe 2032, we could get current. I said, “No, Angela, please. Don’t say that Angela. It’s true. You know who I’m talking about. By the way, very nice woman. Very good negotiator. I said, “Angela, that’s a long time,” this was in 2019. She said 2032. I said, “No Angela, that’s not working.” But I said, because now they want to get cared, but I said, “Well, what about the last 25 years? All the money you owe us?” Everybody forgot about that. They forget about all the money that wasn’t paid. I said, “What about the trillion dollars that you really owe?” So we’re negotiating let’s see, but in the meantime, we’re reducing our troops.

Remember this, we’re supposed to protect Germany from Russia, but Germany is paying Russia, billions of dollars for energy coming from a brand new pipeline. So they pay the country we’re supposed to protect them from, they pay billions of dollars to that country. We’re supposed to protect them. Excuse me, how does that work? And the great thing is with Jim Inhofe and with James Lankford, likewise, they just said they love you James. When they hear it, they get it. A lot of people don’t get it. They get it. We cannot continue to be ripped off. We’re ripped off by so many countries and we’re stopping it. And that means that a lot of people don’t want me here. They don’t want me. There are a lot of people that don’t want me. They don’t sell a lot of bombs when we’re not dropping bombs on people. You know that, right? It’s called the military industrial complex.

When rioting and looting broke out in our nation’s Capitol, I very quickly deployed the National Guard. I said, “Get them in.” After watching for an evening or two, we stopped the violence and restored peace and order to the streets. And last night that had a little breakout. Again, they ripped down a statue that was 110 years old, beautiful piece of art in front of the police precinct with our radical left mayor watching on television. We’re not happy. That’s going to be very expensive for DC. They’re always looking for money. “We need more money. We always need more money.” And then they don’t do the proper job. So it’s not going to be good for Mayor Bowser, Mayor Bowser there.

They were heading over to the Jefferson Memorial recently and they wanted to do damage to our great, beautiful Jefferson Memorial. Not going to happen. Don’t worry about it. We have it surrounded with very strong people. The choice in 220 is very simple. Do you want to bow before the left wing mob? Or do you want to stand up tall and proud as Americans. And explain this to the NFL. I like the NFL. I like Roger Goodell, but I didn’t like what he said a week ago. I said, “Where did that come from in the middle of the summer? Nobody’s even asking?” We will never kneel to our national anthem or our great American flag. We will stand proud and we will stand tall. I thought we won that battle with the NFL. The stadiums were emptying out. Did you see those stadiums? It took them a long time to get you back. A lot of people didn’t like that. A lot of people that you wouldn’t even think would care that much. I’ve had people that I said, “These are super left liberals and they didn’t like it.”

Joe Biden and the Democrats want to prosecute Americans for going to church, but not for burning a church. They believe you can riot, vandalize and destroy, but you cannot attend a peaceful pro-America rally. They want to punish your thought, but not their violent crimes. They want to abolish bail, abolish and open up your borders. They want open borders, let everyone, and by the way, we’re doing so well. We have a record this month on the borders. Nobody’s coming in. Very few people. And they want to abolish ICE, our great people from ICE who send the roughest toughest, meanest people that you’ve ever seen or ever heard.

Generally speaking, when they have lots of tattoos on their face, they’re not looking to do you much help. ICE, they’re rough guys. they’re great Americans, but they’ll walk into, they caught them in a pack. They’ll walk into a pack of tough MS-13 gang members. And we shouldn’t say this, it’s not nice. They want us to negotiate. They start swinging. And the other such way, everybody’s swinging, at the end, they carry them back and they throw them into the paddy wagon. They’re great. And these people want to get rid of ICE. They get rid of murderers. They get rid of rapists. They get rid of the worst scum on earth.

And when I called them animals, I said, “They’re animals.” And Nancy Pelosi, they cut up a young woman. They cut up a young woman and her friend, cut them up with a knife because it was more painful. Dead. Cut them up with a knife because it’s more painful. It takes longer than shooting a gun. They cut them up. I said, “These are animals.” And Nancy Pelosi said, “These are human beings. They’re not animals.” If I lose an election over that, you know what? This country is in big trouble. They want to disarm law, abiding citizens and dismantle our police forces while freeing vicious MS-13 gang members. In Joe Biden’s America, rioters, looters, and criminal aliens have more rights than law abiding citizens. And that’s true. In my administration, we defend American citizens and we deport MS-13 members or put them in jail if we have to. The chaos you’re seeing in our democratic run cities, these are all run by the Democrats, is what will happen in every city and community and America, and much, much worse if we don’t keep them out. We have to do this. We have to go to the polls on November 3rd and the rest of you know what to do. You know what to do. Got to keep the White House. Joe Biden’s record can be summed up as four decades of betrayal, calamity, and failure. He never did anything. He was a Senator. He was a Vice President. He was before that something. You know what’s great? President. Trump was tough on this or he was tough. They complained, never did anything about it. He’s been there for 43 years or 47 years. He never did anything about it. Biden’s supported every globalist attack on the American worker let’s make every country of the world rich but ourselves, including NAFTA, the disaster of NAFTA. He wanted to go and TPP would have ruined our automobile industry.

Korea, I renegotiated the deal. I took a horrible deal. That was a Hillary Clinton special. That was a Hillary Clinton special. She said, “We have to make this deal with South Korea. It’s going to mean 250,000 jobs.” And she was right for South Korea, 250,000. And China’s entry into the World Trade Organization was supported by sleepy Joe Biden. That was one of the worst deals economically in the history of our country. When China joined the World Trade Organization, they were flat line for decades. They became like a rocket ship. He voted for the war in Iraq. He voted for mass amnesty for illegal aliens. He supports sanctuary cities and now Biden wants to end immigration enforcement and he wants to require you to provide free healthcare for millions and millions of illegal aliens.

When I took early and decisive action to ban travel from China and protect Americans from the virus. And as I said, Joe Biden, opposed my decision and called it hysteria, xenophobia. He doesn’t know what the word means, xenophobia and fear-mongering. And then he apologized a month later. He said he was wrong, but he didn’t say it. And they didn’t cover it. They didn’t cover it. On one of the single most important policy decisions of our lifetime, Joe Biden sided with China over America, that’s closing the border. He thought it was a terrible thing. Remember, this was in January. That’s early, real, early, the end of January. He thought it was a terrible thing. When we close the border. Too many people that were badly infected with COVID.

When the chips are down, Biden will always cave to the radical left. He’ll always bow to the angry mob and he will never protect you or your family and you know that. Joe Biden will always let you down. That’s been his history. At my direction early this year, the heroes of the U.S. military took out the world’s top terrorist, the savage killer leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi and the number one terrorist, anywhere in the world, Qasem Soleimani. We took them out. Joe Biden opposed killing Soleimani. He was vehemently… We killed this number one, terrorist. He didn’t like it. You know why he didn’t like it? Because he thought it would be good politically, that didn’t work out too well. Just as he opposed the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. He opposed it, you know that. Biden is always on the wrong side of history, as said by people that are with him and worked with him. He never made a correct foreign policy decision. Biden is a puppet for China. Son walked out with 1.5 billion. I think it’s a little bit…

Allowing them to rip off America for many years. Now they’re paying us billions and billions of dollars. We give a lot of it to our farmers. We have plenty leftover. China is not exactly happy with me. They pay us billions and billions of dollars. And they targeted our great farmers. And I took the money that they targeted, I took that money and I gave it to the farmers. So they were even so they’re okay. Are you okay? Come, Doctor, please. Doctor. Thank you. These people some of the people are waiting for five days, especially in this location. You take your time, darling, take your time.

Thank you very much. Take your time. Doctor, thank you, doctor. Some people wait for four or five days. That’s incredible. He never did anything against China, Joe Biden. And that’s why they desperately want him to win. They want him to win so badly. Iran wants him to win so badly. Let me tell you, I’m going to make a very fast deal. The best deal you’ve ever seen. I’ve already made one with China, but I can make even more. They want me to lose because they will own the United States if I lose. Iran. President Obama gave them $150 billion for nothing.

And almost more incredible, he gave him 1.8 billion in green cash. Beautiful cash. And now they’re not doing so well, are they? They’re not doing so well. Someday, we’re going to get credit for this, someday, but they are waiting. Iran wants to make a deal so badly. But they’re told by Carey and all these other, they shouldn’t the Logan Act, but they’re told Carey and all these people, “Wait, because if Trump loses you’ll own America, you’re going to own it.” They’ll say you own it. So I don’t mind. I told them we can wait, but when I win, you’re going to pay a much higher price than if you made a deal [inaudible 01:07:12].

I told them. And look what happened to Biden in Ukraine where his son’s paid $83,000 a month. And he was jobless. Give me a break. $83,000 a month. More than anybody. If Joe Biden were to become president an emboldened left, will launch a full scale assault on American life. You know that. They’ll expel anyone who disagrees with them. Look what happens when you disagree. You use a term that’s perfect and they’re not happy with it. They call you a racist. They call you a horrible person. They want to crush religious liberty. They don’t want religion. Silence religious believers, indoctrinate your children with hateful and vicious lies about our country, subsidize late term abortion and after birth execution.

They want to take away your guns through the repeal of your Second Amendment, as sure as you’re sitting there. In fact, he even put the big gun grabber, Beto O’Rourke, who made a fool out of himself when he ran for president. They put him in charge of guns. Lots of luck on your Second Amendment. Just remember I said, and hopefully you won’t have to think back about it too much, because it won’t matter. Hopefully it won’t matter. No, Beto O’Rourke who wants to give up guns is in charge of the second amendment. The Dems will also eliminate private health insurance, ban fracking, that’s not good, and American energy will be in a position of weakness like it’s never been before. And that’s after we built the greatest energy country anywhere in the world by far.

And they want to appoint Supreme Court justices who will utterly obliterate your Constitution. And you now see how important the Supreme Court is. Think if we didn’t have two justices, that I think have been very, very, very good, but think how important it is. Think how important it is. And we still, I guess it’s a, I don’t know if it’s an equal court, it’s almost like we’re a minority court, right? It’s almost like we’re a minority court. The recent Supreme Court cases prove that if Joe Biden is elected, he will stack the court with extremists, the forgotten men and women, together with everyone else. We’ll lose everything. The forgotten men and women, I campaigned on the forgotten. These are great people. These are substantial people. These are the elite. By the way, you’re the elite. They’re not the elite. You’re the elite.
Somebody two days ago said, “Sir, the elite are really working hard on trying to destroy you.” I said, “Yeah, why do you call them the elite,” I said, “why?” “Well, they’re not elite.” I look better than them. Much more handsome. Got better hair than they do. I got nicer properties. I got nicer houses. I got nicer apartments. I got nicer everything. I ran for politics once, just once in my life. And I became President of the United States. And hopefully if you get out and vote, we’ll do it one more time. We won’t even toy with them about three or four more times. We won’t. We’ll do it one more time. We’ll be two for two. And our country will never, ever be stronger.

But I’ll be soon announcing a new list of exceptional candidates for the United States Supreme Court. And I’ll choose only from that list. A hundred percent, probably 25 incredible people, any one of which could be a great justice, any one of which. And I did it last time and people loved when I did it. And I’ll only pick from that list. Biden can’t release his list because the names would be too extreme, too radical. They wouldn’t be acceptable, but they will be very radical people. People don’t understand, but we actually won on DACA yesterday. We actually won because they basically said, “You won, but you have to come back and redo it.” It’s almost like, “Gee, come on back, your paperwork was no good.” But we’re going to be refiling, but don’t let it get you. Everything’s going to work out really good. Everything’s going to work out good.

It was a great, it was great. I mean, would have been nice if we won. And Everybody said, “Oh, you’re going to win DACA. You’re going to win DACA. That’s easy. You got to win DACA. That’s easy.” They all said it. And they came back and they said, “We don’t like what you did with your paperwork,” essentially. So we’re re-filing it. Most people would say we lost. We didn’t lose. We’re going to refile it. And everything is going to work out for the young people. Most of whom aren’t so young anymore, by the way. But we’re going to work it out for everybody. Biden is fully controlled by the fringe of his party. He is their pawn. He doesn’t even know where the hell he is. Let’s face it. He installed socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.

To be in charge of his environmental policy and his energy. Energy, you can forget petroleum. How does Oklahoma feel about being petroleum free? Not good, right? Our country will have no energy. Our country will have nothing. Oklahoma, Texas, North Dakota, and many others will all be out of business. I don’t think that’s going to work out too well, but she’s actually in charge of environmental policy. And you know what that means. She doesn’t even want to win. She doesn’t want those bird killing machines that go round and round. You want to see a lot of birds that are dead? Go under a windmill sometime. She wants us to go back to the stone ages because she’s got no sense, no credentials. She’s got a little charisma, not much, but she doesn’t have a clue. You know it. But she’s in charge of the environment. No airplanes. We can forget Boeing, I guess, come to think of it. We talked about Boeing. We could forget Boeing. Let’s cancel those brand new Air Force Ones.

Likewise, Representative Ilhan Omar is going to be very much involved in a Biden government. They will put this hate filled America, bashing socialist, front and center in deciding the fate of your family and deciding the fate of your country. I don’t think she would like to make the government of our country just like the country from where she came, Somalia. No government, no safety, no police, no nothing. Just anarchy. And now she’s telling us how to run our country. No thank you. And I think we’re going to have a big victory in the state of Minnesota, because they’ve had it. They’ve had it.

Biden is a very willing Trojan horse for socialism. When Biden first ran for president over 33 years ago, remember I used to call him 1% Joe, he never got more than 1% until Obama took him off the trash heap. But he blatantly copied the speech of a British politician, even ripping off the man’s personal biography and family history and claiming it was his own. He forgot to say he was born in America. Joe Biden is a shameless hypocrite. Since 2003, he has delivered fawning eulogies to the funeral. And at those funerals of three leading supporters of segregation, including a former member of the KKK, and yet Biden is now smearing as racist, tens of millions of people like yourselves. Decent, hardworking Americans who he’s never met. And he frankly probably doesn’t want to meet. America should not take lectures on racial justice from Joe Biden. Sleepy Joe. A man who praised and partnered with segregationists, shift millions of black American jobs overseas, and everyone else’s jobs too by the way. If I didn’t come along, we’re building auto plants, we’re building everything. And there’s never been a comeback like we’re making right now. Never been.

He hollowed out our middle class, including our black middle class with open borders. Trapped young children in failing government schools, built cages. Those cages were built by Obama and Biden. Look it up, 2014. And the fake news doesn’t wanted to… Remember the picture of the cage? A cage for children. Remember the picture of the cage. And they said President Trump. And then they realized that was at a newspaper, 2014, the same… Built by Obama and Biden, the cages. And they don’t-

And they don’t want to report the way it is. They know the way it is. They’re not stupid. They sent young boys to fight in Iraq while the inner cities crumble, helped the big banks while hammering community leaders, and made our cities less safe and secure for all. They’ve done a terrible job and they shouldn’t be awarded. They should not get rewarded with an election victory on November 3rd, that shouldn’t happen. It’ll destroy this country. Our country will be destroyed. We’ve all worked too hard. They don’t know what the hell they’re doing. Some do actually, but in a very sinister way. Virtually every policy that has hurt black Americans for half a century, Joe Biden has supported or enacted. I’ve done more for the black community in four years than Joe Biden has done in 47 years.

Racial justice begins with Joe Biden’s retirement from public life. We are joined tonight by many outstanding Republican leaders. These are great people. We have two of our most distinguished, hardworking, wonderful friends, senators. They do a great job. Senator Jim Inhofe and James Lankford, please stand up. Two very respected, I will tell you, two very respected people in Washington. They’re respected by everybody. They do some job, and I’d have you come up, but you can relax. I will say this. Jim is running on November 3rd, Jim Inhofe. He’s running on November 3rd. I don’t even know. Does he… Hey, James? Does he have any competition? Is somebody actually running against… There’s no competition that he’s got. I know he’s got James’ support. He’s got my support. I give him 100% endorsement. Jim Inhofe. I’d give it to James too, but he’s not running this time. Thank you. Jim, great job. Thank you very much. What a great Senator he is.

Also here is a man who’s respected by so many. He’s a little bit right of the people we’ve been talking about tonight. Senator Tom Cotton of the great state of Arkansas. Thank you, Tom. They like you people.

Thank you, Tom. Great job you’re doing. We’re glad to be joined as well by a man that I’ve gotten to know. He’s done an incredible job with COVID and with everything else he touches, Governor Kevin Stitt. Thank you both. Thank you both for being here. Thank you. Lieutenant Governor Matt Pinnell. Thanks, Matt. Thanks, Matt. And Representatives Frank Lucas, Tom Cole. He’s been here for a little while. He’s done an incredible job. Markwayne Mullin, you don’t want to fight with him. I want to put him and Jim Jordan in a match together, I want to. Kevin Hern, great job today, Kevin. The great Jim Jordan, Jim Jordan. Elise Stefanik. Lee Zeldin. Tom Emmer. Tom, thank you. These are warriors, folks. These are great warriors. During the fake impeachment trial, I’ll tell you what. There was nobody that could have done the job they’ve done. That includes the Senate and the House. These people are incredible.

David Kustoff. David. A great friend of mine. Debbie Lesko, Arizona. Great job, Debbie. Great job. And a man who’s got very good genes, Greg Pence. Thank you all. Great job. They’re great… They are, they’re warriors. I’ll tell you what. Not every person is, but this group is, and we have a lot of them in Washington, and we’ll send Jim Inhofe back, and we’ll send all of them. You’ll send every one of them. They have to come back because they have been fighting for us, and they’ve been fighting for you. And they are just incredible, talented, tough, strong people that love your state a lot. So thank you very much.

So we built the greatest single economy in the world. And then we say not only the world, but actually in the history of the world, and they never even challenged me. So I guess I’m right. We did it. We had the best numbers anybody’s ever had. We have the best employment numbers, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, the best employment numbers in history, the best stock market numbers in history. We were the envy of the world. Everybody would come in to see me, presidents, prime minister, kings, queens, and dictators. Dictators would even come in to say congratulations on the economy. And then the plague came in, and now what we’re doing is we’re doing it again. And it’s going fast. We have to have a lot of it done because people don’t quite get it. We’re doing record business. It’s happening at a level and a speed that nobody can believe.


Two weeks ago, job numbers came in the single biggest number in the history of our country. Last week, retail sales numbers came in, retail sales, the single greatest number in the history of our country. So here’s what’s going to happen. Here’s what’s going to happen. They blame a President for anything. When you see looters, even though we put them down, if we didn’t stop them, nobody would because the other side will never stop them. But they always blame a President. Here’s what’s happening. We’re going up. We’re going up. We’re going up. We’re going to go up. Then we’re going to hit October. We’re going to be up. We’re going to be way up. We’re not going to be where we were, but in many ways, other than all of the horrible, horrible death that was so needlessly caused by a virus that should have been stopped where it originated, which was China.

But we’re going to go up, up, up, up August, September, October, and people are going to say, “Man, this guy is doing a good job. He knows what he’s doing. I don’t believe the fake news anymore.” And you’re not going to want to lose your 401k’s. And you’re not going to want to lose all of that wealth that you’ve accumulated, whether it’s real estate wealth or any wealth you can think because it’ll all come tumbling down if these people are put in charge. And if they double and triple and quadruple your taxes, it will be a whole different ball game. So I’m not putting any pressure on anybody, but in the end, we’re going to have a phenomenal economy. And next year we’re going to have a good third quarter, but next year, and I said it before, will be the single greatest year economically that we’ve ever had, okay?

And if you see that happening, if you see it happening on November 3rd, you don’t have the guts to vote against Trump. You, even you, you don’t have the guts to vote against Trump. Say, “Wait a minute, darling. My 401k is higher than it was the last time. I don’t think I want to take a chance.” You’re not going to want to do that. The stock market has been the best. Think of this, go back one week and go back 50 days. In that 50 day period, it’s the strongest 50 days in the history of the stock market, think of it. And your wife or your husband says, “Darling, I love you so much. You are such a great investor.” And all you did is just keep the same crap you had the first time, right? “Darling, I love you so much. You’ve always been a loser. You’ve always lost money. But now under President Trump, you’re one of the greatest financial minds in our country.” And all you did was keep your stock.

Now, if you think you’re going to run against… Oh, they’re going crazy. They want the stock market to go down. Even if it costs them money, they want the stock market to go down even if it costs them money, and they don’t even know why. You know what, they’re smart and they’re vicious, but they don’t know why. I’m telling you, they don’t know why. What’s wrong with having the strongest military brand new in the world, [inaudible 00:10:44]? What’s wrong with having these great economic numbers? What’s wrong with having to close it down? We saved millions of lives. You know, a lot of people say we should have gone herd, let’s go herd. Ask them how are they doing in Brazil. He’s a great friend of mine, not good. You heard about Sweden, right? Too much. Ask them how they do it in Sweden. We saved millions of lives, and now it’s time to open up, get back to work, okay? Get back to work.

I recently signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform. I secured record and permanent funding for historically black colleges and universities. We slashed regulations and passed massive tax cuts to give black workers a pay raise like they’ve never, ever gotten before and lift up black owned businesses. And I worked closely with a great senator also, friend of theirs, Senator Tim Scott, South Carolina, to create opportunity zones, which are doing incredibly. And since then countless jobs and $100 billion of new investment, not government investment, have poured into 9,000 of our most distressed neighborhoods anywhere in the country. 9,000, never happened before. Tim Scott. Today. I’m also announcing that I have directed Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt to place the John Hope Franklin Reconciliation Park here in Tulsa on the African American Civil Rights Network. So many of my friends have been asking me to do that. So many of my friends, including these great politicians. So we’re going to do that. It’ll be done very quickly.

We will forever remember and honor the courageous people who helped build this state and this country. Democrats are stoking division in order to distract from their decades of failure on schools, jobs, housing, justice, and crime. In major city public schools run by Democrats, over two thirds of students are falling behind in reading and math. And I think the numbers are worse than that. But Democrats would rather deny these children the future they deserve than allow them to attend the charter, public, private, religious, or independent schools of their choice. Pro choice, pro choice. Pro choice for schools. It’s very popular, but some people it’s like a disaster because what it does to certain unions that have a lot of power over the Democrats, even though they know it’s wrong.

Republicans believe access to education is a civil right. It’s a civil rights. 20 of 20 of the most dangerous cities in America are controlled by Democrats. Think of that, 20 of 20. And so is nearly every major city with a child poverty rate that’s over 30%. They’re controlled by Democrats. We can name every one of them. The murder rate in Baltimore and Detroit is higher than El Salvador, Guatemala, or even Afghanistan. How are they doing, the Democrats running those cities? Your whole country will be like that. In 2018 alone, our police arrested nearly 12,000 people for murder and manslaughter, 25,000 people for rape, and nearly 1.5 million for assault, violent assault. The Democrats’ push against our police will drive up crime and drive up costs at levels you’d never believe. Thousands of innocent lives will be lost. As President, I will always support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.

A vote for Republicans is a vote for better schools, better jobs, safer families, and stronger communities for all Americans. There is a limit to what we can together achieve with four more years. With your help, we will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. That’s what’s happening, that’s what’s happening. And that was happening at a level that nobody ever thought they’d see, it was happening before this COVID came in. It was happening at a level that nobody believed possible. And then China sent us the plague, thank you very much. We will protect Medicare and Social Security for our great seniors. And we’ll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Always, always. We will appoint more judges to interpret the Constitution as written. We will end deadly sanctuary cities. We will finish the wall, which has now 212 miles built and beautiful.

212 mile. That’s a lot of miles. And let me tell you, you think that was an easy one, that was a tough one. That party was totally unified against building the wall. You know, in the end they gave up, you know what happened? They realized it was a bad issue for them because these open borders. I love when they fight for open borders because anybody that wants an open border coming in from rough areas, there’s something wrong with those people. So did you notice in the end it was like, “Just leave us alone, build your wall, just leave us alone.” I said, “Thank you very much.”

And we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration that puts American workers first. We will revitalize our cities, and we will build gleaming new roads, bridges, tunnels, and airports all across our land. We will enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, Made in the USA. It’s so beautiful, so beautiful. Made in the USA. That’s happening too. We have so many plants coming into Michigan and so many other states. We have car plants coming in would have never come if I wasn’t President, would have never come. We will become the world’s premier pharmacy, drug store, and medical manufacturer. That’s already started. We’re bringing it back. We will keep America out of foolish, stupid, ridiculous foreign wars. We will never hesitate to kill America’s terrorist enemies.

When I took over, ISIS was all over the place, and I did something that I felt we should do. And we have now obliterated, we have now captured 100% of the ISIS caliphate. 100, 100. And like our depleted military when I took over, like our empty shelves, medically, when I took over, like all of the things that when I took over, it was a mess, we have done a job. You had to see what ISIS was doing. They were getting bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger. I came in, smaller, smaller, smaller. “Sir, we’ve just taken 100%.” We will launch a new age of American ambition in space. And the United States will be the first nation to land on Mars, good program. You saw the beautiful rocket three weeks ago go up, beautiful. We will defend privacy, free thought, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. And when you see those lunatics all over the streets, it’s damn nice to have arms. Damn nice. Interesting how all of a sudden people understand it, right? You couldn’t sell it. Now people understand it. The right to keep and bear arms, we’ll protect your second amendment. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America, we will support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We uphold the principle of equal justice under the law. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always salute our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto, it will never change, “In God we trust.” We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industries. Won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And we are making it greater and greater every single day. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning the power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.

We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America will soon be thriving, like never before because, ladies and gentlemen of Oklahoma, the best is yet to come. Together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you, Oklahoma. Thank you.




  (02:45)
I want to thank you very much. North Carolina, thank you very much. I’m thrilled to back in the great city of Charlotte, where, by the way, we’re having our convention. I guess you heard that, right? With thousands of hardworking American patriots who love our country, cherish our values, respect our laws and always put America first. Eight months from now, we’re going to defeat the radical socialists. We’re going to win the great state of North Carolina in a landslide. We won it last time, we’re going to win it this time by even more. And you know, Eric and Lara named their daughter, you know what her name is? Carolina, Carolina. Her name is Carolina for a reason.

  (03:39)
This is an incredible time for our nation. Our country is stronger than ever before. And today, we just had the largest one day increase in the stock market in history. That’s great. That’s great. That was great. You know, our opponents were saying, ” Oh, maybe he’s in trouble, maybe the economy … ” They’ll do anything. They’ll do anything. I’m sure they were thrilled. Do you think our opponents were thrilled when they saw the stock market today? I don’t think so.

  (04:19)
By the way, look at this. Look back there, look at all of that press. Look at all them. Man, I don’t know if Sleepy Joe, or Bernie, I don’t think they have that much press. Bernie was going wild. Why would I be here tonight? Why would I be here? He said why would I be here tonight? We don’t have the primary, we’ve already won the thing, you know? I was going to say the you know what thing, I held it back, because they’ll say, “Horrible language. He used horrible language today.” But we’re doing fantastically.

  (04:59)
There’s never been a time where the Republican Party was so unified as it is now. Never, never. And you hear about enthusiasm for crazy Bernie, and that’s true, he does have some enthusiasm, but much less than we have and a much smaller group of people, too. And there’s not a lot of enthusiasm for Biden. I thought he gave up the presidency the other day because he said he’s running for the Senate. I looked at the First Lady, I said, ” Hey, he’s running for the Senate.” And today he just said Super Thursday, he’s looking forward to Super Thursday.

  (05:53)
Jobs are booming in our country, incomes are soaring, poverty has plummeted, confidence is surging, and we have completely rebuilt the awesome power of a thing called the United States military. Every day, for me and for you, it’s promises made, promises kept. One of the most important promises I made is right to this era. You know, we look at it, it’s the never ending wars in the Middle East. We’re taking our soldiers, we’re bringing them back home. We’re not law enforcement. We’re bringing them back home. American troops cannot be the policemen for the world, or to create democracy in other nations that frankly probably don’t want it. The job of the American military is to secure and defend our country.

  (07:04)
Two days ago, the Unites States signed a deal with the Taliban so that after 19 years of conflict, and very close to 20, we can finally begin to bring our amazing troops back home. After years of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation and taking care of our own American citizens

  (07:35)
And all of the things that we’ve done, we’ve wiped out the terrorists, we’ve done so much, and you know what? We’re 8,000 miles away. You got a lot of big countries surrounding Afghanistan, you’ve got Afghanistan itself. The progress that was made, was made possible by the extraordinary valor of our men and our women in uniform. You know that. We pay a special tribute, and I know you pay it, a special tribute to our great wounded warriors and those who made the ultimate sacrifice.

  (08:27)
As we bring back our troops, we are committed to ensuring that foreign terrorists are denied admission to America in the first place. They’re not coming here, and if they do, bad things happen to them. We must keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.

  (08:42)
By the way, I have to say this, you know you have thousands and thousands of people outside. Somebody was saying that if Pocahontas, any one of them, Sleepy Joe, he doesn’t have that, so he doesn’t have a lot, he has very small crowds, but if Sleepy Joe or if any of them had a crowd one-tenth this size, they go around talking about how big the crowd. They never say that. Hey, take your cameras and spin them around this big arena. Right now. Spin them around.

  (10:26)
They don’t turn, they don’t turn. You notice, they don’t turn. But if there were some kind of trouble in a little corner, anything to make us look bad, that camera would turn like a pretzel. I used to think, you know, modern equipment it can’t turn, but when we would have a protestor, and I must say, I’ll say it out loud, we don’t have too many protesters anymore, do we? [inaudible 00:10:48]. No fun to be a protestor at a Trump rally, but do we have a great time at a Trump rally?

  (10:55)
My administration has also taken the most aggressive action in modern history to protect Americans from the Coronavirus. You know about this whole thing? Horrible. Including, sweeping travel restrictions. Today, we met with the big great pharmaceutical companies, and they’re really working hard, and they’re working smart, and we had a great meeting today with a lot of the great companies. They’re going to have vaccines I think relatively soon. And they’re going to have something that makes you better, and that’s going to actually take place we think even sooner.

  (11:43)
So a lot of good things are happening, but we have strong borders, and really, our tough and early actions have really been proven to be 100% right. We went out, we’re doing everything in our power to keep the sick and infected people from coming into our country. We’re working on that very hard. We closed our borders very early. I took a lot of heat for that. Remember when I closed the borders to certain areas of the world? I took a lot of heat. But there are fringe globalists who would rather keep our borders open than keep our infection, think of it, keep all of the infection, let it come in. And we’re working with other countries. In all fairness, look, it’s a problem, we’re working with other countries. Remember this, over the last long period of time, the flu, the common flu, you know this, right? From 27,000 to 70,000 people get infected, and many people die. Think of it, 27,000. You lose 27,000 people to the common flu. It can be much more. One year was much higher than the 70,000 number. Those people died. So when you lose 27,000 people a year, nobody knew that. I didn’t know that. Three, four weeks ago, I was sitting there, I said, “What do we lose with the regular flu?” They said, “About 27,000 minimum, goes up to 70, sometimes even 80, one year it went up to 100,000 people.” I said, “Nobody told me that. Nobody knows that.”

  (13:17)
So I actually told the pharmaceutical companies, “You have to do a little bit better job on that vaccine. Really, have to do a better job on that vaccine.” [inaudible 00:13:28]. Last year was approximately 36,000 people died. So we’re working hard on it, and we’re going to come up with some really great solutions. In the meantime, we’re stopping … Only in North Carolina. Only in North Carolina. It can only be. How many people here are from South Carolina, by the way? All right, we love both places. But that was from North Carolina.

  (14:17)
But just to finish up, so we’ve made a lot of progress, we’ve really done a great job with it. We’re keeping our borders strong. My job is to protect the health of American patients and Americans first, and that’s what I’ll do. Washington Democrats are trying to politicize the coronavirus, denigrating the noble work of our public health professionals. But honestly, not so much anymore. Everyone appreciates, these are the greatest professionals in the world at what they do. We’re actually helping a lot of other countries where they have some very, very big problems. So we have our professionals in constant touch, I’m in constant touch with some of the leaders and helping them out. But the political attacks from some of the Democrats really must stop. We’ve got to all work together on this one to safeguard our people. We’re going to safeguard our people, the United States.

  (15:08)
The United States is, right now, ranked by far number one in the world for preparedness. Earlier today, when I met with the pharmaceutical companies, things were discussed and learned honestly. The media didn’t know. Nobody knew. They’ve never heard this before. And we learned a lot, and maybe that had the impact on the stock market. Who knows what happened, but we’re going to reduce and the severity of what’s happening, the duration of the virus. We discussed all of these things. We will bring these therapies to market as rapidly as possible.

  (15:56)
And I have to say, with a thriving economy the way it is, and the most advanced health system on earth, America is so resilient, we know what we’re doing, we have the greatest people on earth, the greatest health system on earth. We have the greatest health system on earth. The renewal of American strength over the last three years means at times of challenge, we are the best prepared to rise to any occasion. No country is better equipped than America to handle new threats, and no people are more skilled, talented, tough, or driven than Americans.

  (16:44)
And together, we are in the midst of the great American comeback. That’s what it is. Last month, we added 225,000 new jobs in January alone. That makes seven million jobs since the election. We have destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate, and we killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. He is dead. And we took out the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign on terror forever, Soleimani.

  (17:32)
While the extreme left has been wasting time with vile hoaxes and delusional witch hunts, we have been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, and lifting up American citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed.

  (17:49)
Tomorrow, voters in states across the nation will head to the polls for Super Tuesday, not Super Thursday. No, he said, “Super Thursday.” You can’t do these things. Can you imagine if I said Super Thursday? It would be over, right? I would be over. No matter how good you are at certain things, you can’t, as an example, a name like Sleepy Joe, he’s constantly naming the wrong state. “It’s great to be in the state of Ohio.” No, no, no, I’m sorry, you’re in North Carolina. No, no. Joe! Do you ever see them run up with a sign, “No, no, North Carolina, Joe!” Once that happens, you might as well leave the states, because it’s a disaster no matter how good you’re doing. We’re in North Carolina! It’s great to be in Idaho! No, you’re in Iowa. Nah, he makes a lot of those mistakes, they’re a little scary.

  (18:53)
Did you see [inaudible 00:18:54]? We’re going to protect your second amendment, you understand that. But did you see, Sleepy Joe, did you see Sleepy Joe, where he said, “Last year, 150 million people were killed by guns in our country.” 150 million! That means 50% of our country. That’s a big story. 150. Can you imagine Trump saying that? These people would never let me live it down. We can’t make even a little mistake. We can’t make even a little, tiny, tiny mistake. If we make a tiny mistake, it’s headlining. They say things like 150 million people killed, guns, they say Super Thursday, they say Georgia, he’s looking forward to winning Georgia tomorrow. Georgia’s not in Super Tuesday!

  (20:00)
So many mistakes! You can’t do that when you’re negotiating with China. Can’t do that when you’re negotiating with these countries, can you? Those mistakes would be very tremendous.

  (20:22)
Then you have Mini Mike. You see this guy? Can you believe it? Mini Mike. He’s being interviewed tonight on Fox. Can you believe it? Fox. They want to be politically correct. They want to interview, they end up interviewing more Democrats than Republic … I don’t know what’s going on with Fox. But they’re interviewing this guy the night before … Mini Mike, ay, ay, ay, what a mess he is. The worst debate performance in the history of presidential debate history. The worst in history.

  (20:42)
Nah, I got to have more. I’d get down real low, but I don’t want to copy him. Everybody saw it. Everyone said, “Oh,” they all say, “Oh! Do that again where you get down low.” But if I do that again, it’s a copy. It’s a copy! No, no. No. You never like to copy, even though you’re copying yourself. You don’t like to copy. You do it once. It was a big hit. But you do it once, and you sort of say, “That was nice, don’t do it again,” because if it doesn’t work the second time, it gets embarrassing, right? Right? We all know. But no, he’s a disaster waiting to happen. He’s a mess.

  (21:37)
No matter which Democrat candidate you’re talking about, and you understand that, any one of these candidates … And you see what’s happening, right? It’s being rigged against … It’s sad. It’s being rigged against Crazy Bernie. Crazy Bernie is going to go crazy. Crazy. I think Crazy Bernie is going to be more crazy when they see what they’re doing. I called it a long time ago. Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Buttigieg, May Pete, he quit. Out last night. Then I hear a Senator from a state we’re going to win, we’re going to win that state, but she dropped out. Sounds like they made a deal. They both supported Sleepy Joe. You know why? They made a deal. You know why? Quid pro quo, that’s why. Don’t care. Quid pro quo. Quid pro quo, they made a deal. Impeach them! They should be impeached! They should be impeached! Quid pro quo.

  (22:57)
But they’ve embraced an extreme left wing agenda. Their plans would massively raise your taxes, destroy our liberty, muzzle our faith, and erase our sovereignty. You know that. The Democrat Party has gone crazy. Whether it’s Bernie Sanders plan to eliminate private healthcare, Elizabeth Pocahontas’s plan … By the way, she’s history. She’s history. I came up with that name far too early, I should’ve just waited. But it didn’t matter. I thought she was making a come back. I said, “Wow, I just did it to her.”

  (23:31)
But you know those embers were burning a little bit a couple of months ago? They never caught on. In fact, she’ll probably lose the State of Massachusetts to Bernie. So she doesn’t know what to do because you’re not supposed to lose the State of Massachusetts if you get in there. She’s the Senator. She’s the Senator for Massachusetts, I think she’s going to lose it to Bernie. And Miss Michigan, you see what’s going on over there? Michigan, we’re leading. We’re leading in Wisconsin. We’re leading in Florida. We’re leading-

  (24:01)
… Wisconsin, we’re leading in Florida, we’re leading in South Carolina, we’re leading in North Carolina. We’re leading in New Hampshire. We’re leading in the great state of Florida that was one of the first ones [inaudible 00:24:19] in the last election. Hey, how great was the 2016 election? One of the greatest nights, one of the most highest rated television nights in the history of television. And remember, there was oh, this is going to be a quick one. This is going to be… oh, that wasn’t so easy for them. I love the scene. The scene of that convention center where Hillary was getting ready to speak, and then she found out she lost. But Elizabeth Warren’s here to plan to eliminate our borders, or Mini Mike’s plan to eliminate your second amendment. Mike Bloomberg wants to eliminate your second amendment. Don’t worry about it, it’s not going to happen. Not going to happen for him. For sleepy Joe, he doesn’t even know where he is, what he’s doing, or what office he’s running for. Actually, I honestly don’t think he knows what office he’s running for. And it doesn’t matter.

  (25:30)
Maybe he gets in, because he’s a little more moderate. So maybe he gets in. But he’s not going to be running it. Other people are going to. They’re going to put him into a home, and other people are going to be running the country. But they’re going to be super left radical crazies. They’re going to be super left radical crazies, Joe’s going to be in a home. He’ll be watching television. Everything will be just fine. The insanity of Washington Democrats is why millions of registered Democrat voters are joining our movement. They are joining our great Republican party.

Crowd: (25:59)
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.

  (26:25)
Turn those [inaudible 00:26:25]. We have the enthusiasm in our party. No, I really mean it. I constantly hear about the enthusiasm. They’re fighting each other, they hate each other, they don’t know what’s going on. We have all the love, we have all the enthusiasm, and we know what we’re doing. We know what we’re doing. So we’re thrilled to be joined tonight by many really great, terrific, brilliant, wonderful warriors. Even though he comes from a slightly different state, but not to far by, is somebody that really has distinguished himself, he’s become a great friend of mine. What he did for Justice Kavanaugh, do you remember that? One of the greatest statements ever made in the United State’s Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham. Come on up, Lindsey. Lindsey Graham, come on up, Lindsey. Come here, Lindsey. I got to have him say something, come here, Lindsey.

Lindsey Graham: (27:59)
Hello, Charlotte. It’s good to be in a place where I don’t have an accent. Mr. President, thank you for being the best Commander in Chief since Ronald Reagan. Thank you for killing the terrorists over there, so they can’t hurt us over here. Thank you for sticking with Judge Kavanaugh. Mr. President, everybody in this room has one thing in common, we all have your back. Mr. President, you are going to kick their ass in November.

  (28:49)
[inaudible 00:28:49] great guy.

Crowd: (28:49)
USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA.

  (29:12)
Great guy, great gentleman. Now some warriors that really defended us with the impeachment hoax, one of great hoaxes in the history of country, Representative Virginia Foxx, Patrick McHenry, Richard Hudson, Mark Meadows, David Rouzer, Ted Budd. They’re warriors, these guys are unbelievable the way they fight. The last straw, I’ll tell you, I came here and then it probably weren’t scheduled to win, and fake news, CNN and [inaudible 00:30:01] they were all set. They [inaudible 00:30:03]. They handle pressure so well. They came and we gave a rally that was like this and Dan Bishop and Gregg Murphy won by so much, it wasn’t even close. They’re great people, and they’ve done a fantastic job. Thank you very much. They handle pressure. They were under a lot of pressure, they handled it well. It’s nice to know people can handle pressure, there aren’t too many of them. North Carolina Republican party chairman Michael Whatley. Thank you, Michael.

  (30:48)
I have a few great friends of mine and they love North Carolina. Louis DeJoy, who you know, Louis DeJoy. Two great people, diamond and silk. Right? Diamond and silk. We love them.

Speaker 2: (31:39)
Okay, y’all know we about to win another election. I saw Mini Mike on Fox.

Speaker 3: (31:40)
Uh-huh (affirmative).

Speaker 2: (31:40)
Mini.

Speaker 3: (31:44)
Mini.

Speaker 2: (31:45)
President Trump is this high.

Speaker 3: (31:45)
Uh-huh (affirmative).

Speaker 2: (31:45)
You got to be this high to ride this ride. Now while the media continue to play the race card, we going to continue to play the Trump card, so we can [inaudible 00:08: 08].

  (32:05)
You know the first lady, a long time ago now, right? How long is that? Probably almost almost five years ago, she said, “There are these two women on the internet, they’re unbelievable. They’re unbelievable.” I said, “Oh, I know, I hear that all the time. I hear it all the time.” She said, the next day she came again. She said, “I saw them again, they’re unbelievable.” I said, “Let me see.” I saw them, I fell in love with it, and everybody fell in love with Diamond and Silk. So thank you.

  (33:00)
Some people that have really been helpful to me, Corey Lewandowski, David Bussey, and Pam Bondi, right here. Thanks also to all of the people who are working to make the 2020 Republican National Convention right here in Charlotte an outstanding success, RNC chairman Ronna McDaniel, RNC co chairman Tommy Hicks, and Convention president Marcia Lee Kelly, thank you all. You’re doing a great job, I’ll tell you they’re looking, they’re going to spend a lot of money and doing a good job. Should we doing a great job, but just an okay job? It doesn’t matter as long as you win. You know what I gave when we won last time, somebody else took them to convention center, spent a fortune and I just took a hotel ballroom. I said, “What the heck, if I win, nobody cares, if I don’t.” Look if you win, nobody cares what room you’re in. If you lose, nobody cares what room you’re in. So we took a ballroom, nice ballroom, that’s it, no big deal. I think it this way, if we win, nobody cares. And if we lose, I’m out of there, I save a hell of a lot of money.

  (34:25)
But I never thought we were going to lose. That’s on of the things they like to spread, “Trump felt that he wasn’t going to win.” Oh yeah, I’m running because I [inaudible 00:10:30], that’s not the deal. I mean it’s always possible that you don’t win, but boy I thought we were going to win and we were getting crowds like this actually, to be honest, I think our crowds now are bigger, stronger, and even more enthusiastic. I really think they’re more enthusiastic than ever before. And then there’s two set we’re eight months away, that’s a long, it’s not even our, in case you haven’t heard, we’ve got it made in the primers. For us, we’re not even really political season and we’re getting crowds like this, we were all over the last couple of weeks. We like to troll. We like to go the night before one of their primers. We do a little trolling, it’s called we do a little trolling. Bernie Sanders was very upset, “Why would he be there?” Why? Because I want to win, I want to keep everybody happy. That’s such a good reason. Honestly, when you’re two months or three months out, we’re getting numbers that are unbelievable. Colorado went, we went to Iowa, every place we’ve gone, New Hampshire. Every place we’ve gone, just came out of South Carolina, you saw that. That was an incredible [inaudible 00:35:57]. Every place that we’ve gone, it’s been amazing. I’d also like to recognize, so important, a woman who’s really helped us win North Carolina in 2016, I have a feeling this year, she’ll even do better, because she happened to grow up here, Lara Trump and my son Eric Trump. Two great people. I mean I have to say that about my son, but I know a lot of people don’t like their sons that much, but Lara has been fantastic, and thank you very much, what a job. She knows this state better than anybody in this room except maybe this guy right here. How are we doing, Lara? How are we doing? How are we doing in the state, are we doing good?

  (36:55)
And we’re doing well in Pennsylvania I hear, and South Carolina, I know we’re doing great there. Also with us tonight, is a man who’s really become a good friend of mine. We were going at it a little bit at the beginning, but I will tell you, and I would say if I didn’t get along, I would not be here. I wouldn’t do this. I think he’s been tremendous. He’s been a tremendous supporter and things that we’ve wanted to do, and fights that we’ve had which were so important, he’s been right up, and Lizzie will tell you that he’s been right up in front and really he deserves another six year term. Probably a lot longer than that, but he’s going to come up and I’m going to ask Senator Thom Tillis, come on up. Thom has really been incredible, he’s been working everyday. And he really wants to fight to the radical left and he does it and he knows how to fight, and take care of our amazing veterans, and stop illegal immigration. Thom is the champion for the people of North Carolina. This November, we need everybody to go and vote for Thom, he’s doing great. He’s doing great. I hear he’s way up in the polls, he’s way up in the polls. Thom, say a few words.

Thom Tillis: (38:17)
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you all for being here, thank you for supporting our President, make sure that I come back for another six years, and we get him back for four more years. Let me tell you about this President, I think it’s very important since before this president was ever sworn in and they were trying to impeach him, did he back down? No. When the media goes out, tries to spread false news or fake news, does he back down?

Crowd: (38:47)
No.

Thom Tillis: (38:48)
When he makes a promise, does he keep it?

Crowd: (38:48)
Yes.

Thom Tillis: (38:49)
When he told you he’d cut taxes, did he do it?

Crowd: (38:51)
Yes.

Thom Tillis: (38:51)
When he told you he would support [inaudible 00:38:54], id he do it?

Crowd: (38:51)
Yes.

Thom Tillis: (38:53)
When he told you that we would refund the military and become the world’s superpower, did he do it?

Crowd: (39:00)
Yeah.

Thom Tillis: (39:00)
When he told you that he was going to confirm Supreme Court Justices, circuit court justices, the district court judges, now 200 of them, did he do it?

Crowd: (39:09)
[inaudible 00:39:11].

Thom Tillis: (39:09)
Ladies and gentlemen, you got to start choice, it starts tomorrow, we’re both on the ballot. You need to vote for us so we can go back and do it again, but let me tell you again, we can’t forget what they’re promising you on the other side of the aisle. Bernie Sanders is so liberal, he doesn’t even call himself a democrat, he calls himself a socialist. This President went to the State of the Union and he said, “America will never be a socialist country.” That’s another promise he’s going to keep. Now mind you ladies and gentleman, I want to thank the President for coming back, and I can’t wait to welcome him in August for the RNC Convention. Quiet. Mr. President there was one thing that you said back at the campaign in 2016, it’s the only thing, I just don’t believe it’s happened, have you gotten tired of winning?

Thom Tillis: (40:08)
Do you want to win some more?

Crowd: (40:08)
[inaudible 00:40:06].

Thom Tillis: (40:08)
Then you got to get this man reelected. SO we can give you the free stuff that a free country deserves, free markets, free trade, freedom of religion, freedom of speech, and the freedom for you to protect yourself with your right to bear arms. That’s the freedom that this man represents, that’s the freedom I represent, get him elected for four more years.

  (40:14)
Wow. Hey that’s pretty good, that’s pretty good, Thom. Lot of times we get people up and they just can’t do it. They start breathing bad, they can’t breathe, “Oh help me,” like Bloomberg. Did you see the debate? Huh? She came after him. She’s mean, she’s very mean. She came after him and he started chocking [inaudible 00:41:10] “Get me off this stage. Get me off. You guys didn’t tell me this was going to happen.” No, that was great Thom. We’re also honored to be joined tonight by a true American hero, a veteran of World War II and the Korean War who just turned 100 years old. His name is George Washington Perry, legit. George, thank you very much for being here. Thank you, George. 100 years. He’s 100 and he looks good. Thank you, George. With the help of everyone here tonight, America has now become the hottest economy anywhere on the planet earth. Since my election over 219,000 new jobs have been created right here in North Carolina.

  (42:16)
We have lifted 10,000,000 people off of welfare, including 7,000,000 people off of food stamps. Median household income has reached the highest level ever recorded, think of that. The average unemployment rate from my administration is the lowest for any US president in recorded history, that’s happening, that’s happening. The unemployment rate among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached the lowest level in recorded history. Very important to me, African American youth unemployment has reached an all time low. African American poverty is that the lowest rate ever recorded. For decades democratic politicians betrayed, and they truly did, they betrayed African Americans. My administration is delivering for African Americans like never before. No president has done more for our black community, no president has done more for our black community, and it’s an honor to do it. Last month here in Charlotte, we launched a nationwide campaign to create a better future for all Americans. It’s called Opportunity Now, you know about it. We’re also fighting to ensure that working families have access to paid family leave, reducing the cost of childcare and giving 40,000,000 american families an average of $2,200 thanks to the Republican child tax credit. The Republicans are claiming that we did that nobody else did, but the Democrats are saying, “How did they do that one?”

  (44:29)
We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies and decimated manufacturing in North Carolina, you know all about. It’s probably the number one reason running, and the deals we’re making, the trade deals, are unbelievable. Your state lost 43% of all manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed, think of that. Weeks ago, we finally ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new US [inaudible 00:20:57]. The USMCA is a giant for North Carolina’s incredible farmers and factory workers. And by the way, speaking of farms, factory workers, and small businesses, are all for the death tax. You know about the death tax, right? It’s called the inheritance tax. You have a small farm some place, you have a small business, you have a nice business, you no longer have an inheritance tax or a death tax. So if you want to leave it to your children, you can leave it to your children, there’s no tax to be paid by your children. So they don’t have to go back to the evil banker, borrow money from the banker, lose the farm, lose the business, it won’t happen. And I always say, I know a lot of parents that don’t love the children very much.

  (45:54)
Is there anybody in this room that does not love your children? Please raise your hand. Please raise your hand. Nobody. Nobody, that’s because we’re North Carolina, you love your children. But if you don’t, then it doesn’t matter because if you don’t love your children, don’t leave them a damn thing, but you don’t have the inheritance tax anymore, which is great. A lot of people don’t even know that, but that’s a big deal or no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly betraying the American people than on the issue of immigration.

  (46:33)
Every Democrat running for president supports free federal welfare for illegal aliens, on your tax. Not only does illegal immigration drain our treasury, but it is threatens innocent lives as just one heartbreaking example, two illegal aliens in Maryland who had been previously charged with attempted murder were released, unaccountably released, and they went on to further a teenage girl beating her with a baseball bat and slashing her with a machete. The entire democratic field supports [inaudible 00:47:15] sanctuary cities, which release dangerous criminals to terrorize your communities. Right here in North Carolina, believe it or not, the sanctuary county of Durham released an illegal alien criminal, who then receded to viciously murdered a young 19 year old woman last year, you know all about it. Killing her and dumping her body into the woods. Last year alone, sanctuary jurisdictions in North Carolina, how did that happen to North Carolina? Deliberately set free hundreds and hundreds of, and these are really dangerous criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of burglary, gun crime, sexual assault, kidnapping, and even mur-

  (48:03)
Gun crime, sexual assault, kidnapping, and even murder. Got to change it. Your Democrat Governor, Roy Cooper, vetoed a bill that would save North Carolina lives and ban sanctuary cities [inaudible 00:48:18]. What is he thinking? But while your super Liberal Governor is putting your families at risk, your Republican Senator Thom Tillis has introduced a bill allowing American victims to sue sanctuary cities for the horrible pain and [inaudible 00:49:06] suffering they inflict on our people. We’re building the wall. We’re building the wall. We’re building the wall. We’re building the wall. Mexico’s paying for the wall, by the way. We built 127 miles as of today, 127.

  (49:13)
Mexico is paying for the wall. The media is going to be thrilled when I explain that Mexico is paying for the wall because you know, now finally they said I’ve had obstruction like you wouldn’t believe. The entire democratic party. I could get anything. I created Space Force. I could do anything. I could get. Lindsey and Thom Tillis knows. Mark knows this. All of them knows this. If I wanted 25 cents for the wall, they didn’t want to get it. They didn’t want to do it, but now we got it, and you think that’s easy? Nobody else could have done this. We’re building it. We’re building our hearts away. We’ll soon be building many, many miles a week, but we’re up to over 125, I guess 127, 28 by now, of the super duper wall, super duper.

  (49:52)
I went to Border Patrol, I said, ” What is your wish?” “Well, sir, we’d like it to be steel and concrete.” They want it exactly what they have it, and the barriers up top, they want everything. It’s called a no climb provisor, no climb provisor. I said, “What does the word provisor mean?” They didn’t know. All it means is you’re not able to climb over it. It is very tough. I don’t know if you saw. In a part of the wall, a couple of weeks ago, they were climbing the wall, and the fire department had to come and take them down. That’s what the no climb is. That’s what the no climb is. It’s a no climb. It’s more money. It’s a little more expensive. Thank you. Who is that? What a voice. Pavarotti.

  (50:47)
So, we’re building the wall. It’s going great. So, they said, “All right. He’s building the wall, but Mexico’s not paying for it.” Yes, they are. You’ll see. You’ll see. You understand. Some of you understand because I told a few people last week, it got linked to the fake news media. If you want to end sanctuary cities in North Carolina and across America, then you have only one choice. You must vote Republican. You have to. You have to.

  (51:15)
Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we reduced illegal border crossings by a staggering 75% since last [inaudible 00:03:29]. We’ve added catch and release, one of the worst loopholes you’ve ever seen, catch and release. You catch them. You then say, “Where do you live?” They don’t know because look, let’s face it, they don’t know. I understand that. It’s not even to be laughed at. They don’t know. “Where do you live?” I don’t know. Mexico, maybe, Honduras, Guatemala, who knows? El Salvador. “Where do you live?” Like this guy, he’s a Mexican. You’re about as Mexican as I am. Look at this guy. He’s as Mexican as I am. Look at that hat. Are you Mexican? Are you Mexican? No, you’re not. Are you? He is.

  (52:08)
It’s like Elizabeth Warren. She said she was an Indian. I said, “I have more Indian blood in me than you have, and I have none. She said, “Oh, this is terrible.” So she went out and got a test and it turned out not so good for her. Right? 1024th, right? One thousandths, so I was right. I probably have more in me. What a phony she is. What a phony.

  (52:39)
Washington Democrats have never been more extreme. 132 Congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie Sanders’ healthcare takeover. While the Washington Democrats are trying to destroy your healthcare and your social security, and they are going to destroy your social security. Remember they used to say with me, “I’m going to end it the first day.” Well, you know what, we’re going to soon be four years and all I’ve done is make it stronger. You know that. My administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare. You’re going to have great health. We are defending your right to keep the doctor and to keep the plan of your choice.

  (53:26)
Remember President Obama? You can keep your doctor. You can keep your plan. 28 times. They said, “Impeach him. You should impeach him.” 28 times he lied. 28 times on record, “You can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan.” Well, that’s not true. It wasn’t. Impeach him. We’re making healthcare better and much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the last five years before I took office. We are now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive and they’re better plans. We are protecting people with preexisting conditions and we always will, and we are trying terminate, in the Supreme Court of the United States, the worst healthcare in the world, and we are going to give you the best healthcare you’ve ever seen at a low price and again, protecting preexisting conditions. Protecting preexisting conditions.

  (54:29)
We’re fighting to stop surprise medical billing. You know what that is? Surprise. You get all sorts of surprises. We have people that take a blood test in one place, it’s $26, and in another place it’s $2000. Same blood test, maybe the cheap one is better, who knows? Same blood test. It’s wrong. Surprise medical building. Bombed. Out. Billing.

  (54:55)
I signed an executive order opposing price transparency that’s going to be bigger than healthcare, because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very, very fast. Right? It’s a big thing. It’s a big thing. We’ve approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as name brand drugs, but a fraction of the cost. We have given them, and there’s a lot of political pressure not to do that, you can understand why.

  (55:26)
To care for our amazing veterans, we passed VA Choice and VA Accountability, and nobody said it could be done. So now, instead of waiting in line for days and days, and weeks and weeks to see a doctor, you go outside, you get a doctor, we pay the bill, you get all fixed up. What a great thing. It’s called VA Choice. I got it done. They’ve been trying to pass it for almost 50 years and they haven’t been able to. Those people over there were a great help. We have passed the spectacular Right to Try. You know what that is? Hopefully nobody in the room needs. Hopefully nobody in the room needs Right to Try. We are combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years. We’ve launched new initiatives combating kidney disease and Alzheimer’s, and we’re pursuing new advances in neonatal research to care for America’s youngest patients, and breaking all records in so doing. Virtually every Democratic candidate has declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up until the very moment of birth. How about that? That is why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion of babies, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift of God.

  (57:14)
Then you have the Governor of Virginia. The baby is born. The baby is born and he says, “And then you go over and start talking to the mother as to whether or not you execute the baby.” This is the Governor of Virginia. The Governor of Virginia. He’s a beauty. You remember what he did? He wanted to dance like Michael Jackson and his wife stopped him. He got lucky. But the Governor of Virginia wanted to do that. The baby is born and then he goes over and talks to the mother. The doctor will now talk, and you’ll make a decision as to whether or not the baby lives. Did you ever hear of anything like this?

  (57:59)
The Democratic party is the party of high taxes, high crime, unlimited regulations, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total obliteration of your second amendment. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln. So many people came up to me tonight and they want me to fight, and we’re doing it for school choice, so that every child who needs it, gets it. No parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.

  (58:55)
I passed criminal justice reform to give former prisoners a second chance at life. Alice Johnson, do we love Alice Johnson? This could not have been done by anyone other than the Republican party.

  (59:16)
I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. We recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Our historic investments in the United States military include $200 million to a place that nobody’s heard of in this audience, I’m sure, Fort Bragg. $300 million for Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point. More than $500 million for Marine Corps Air Station New River.

  (59:58)
Listen to this one. No Democrat’s going to this. They don’t even want to spend money on the military. They don’t like the military. They’re not going to spend money. $1.2 billion for Camp Lejeune. $1.2 billion. Do you think that a guy like sleepy Joe’s going to put, he doesn’t know what it means. I know what I means. We have to have a strong military. We have the strongest military we’ve ever had. When I came in, our military was in sad shape. It was depleted, but we’ve rebuilt it, $2.5 trillion dollars went into our military.

  (01:00:43)
For years you’ve watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of North Carolina and always will. [inaudible 01:01:01] is the actual survival of an our nation itself. If you want your children to inherit the blessings of generations of Americans who fought and died to secure, and you know what they’re securing, they are securing us, they’re securing our freedom, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November, November 3rd to be exact.

  (01:01:28)
Only this way can we save the America we love, and drain the Washington swamp, which is by the way, much more vicious, much dirtier, much deeper than I ever thought, but we are kicking ass. With your help, we will lift billions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane and lawful system of immigration, and we will continue with the great Thom Tillis. We will get Thom Tillis. Thom, I don’t think anybody even wants to run against you, Thom, but we’re going to reelect Thom Tillis. Is that right? We’re going to reelect Thom Tillis. If we don’t, I’m going to be so angry at you. I’ll only come back here a few times a year.

  (01:02:39)
No, Thom is going to be great. Thom, I think you’re in great shape. I think you’re in great shape. One more hand for Thom Tillis, please. We don’t even know who’s running against him. Nobody wants the run.

  (01:02:58)
We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful, beautiful, beautiful phrase Made in the USA, right? Made in the USA. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in less than nine years. We’ve already started. Who would have thought? We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms.

  (01:03:41)
Your second amendment rights are under siege. Believe me, they’re under siege. We don’t get in, you can forget your second amendment. That’s what I think. I really believe it. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that binds us together as one beautiful America. We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work, and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. We live by the words of our national motto, In God We Trust.

  (01:05:16)
From Fayetteville to Wilmington, from Raleigh to Greensboro, from Asheville to Kitty Hawk, to right here in Charlotte, this state is the home to some of the toughest men and strongest women, and most incredible patriots ever to walk the face of the Earth. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, blazed the trail, sailed the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, revolutionized industry, won two world wars, defeated fascism, and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater every single day.

  (01:06:12)
Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people, that’s what’s happening. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of North Carolina, the best is yet to come. Because together, we have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we have made America great again.

  (01:07:13)
Thank you. Thank you, North Carolina. Thank you.







  (02:44)
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All I can say is that the fake news just doesn’t get it, do they? They don’t get it. They just don’t get it. Hello Charleston, and I’m thrilled to be back in the great state of South Carolina with thousands of hardworking American Patriots who believe in faith, family, God, and country. Thank you. It’s a phenomenal crowd, only topped by the number of people outside that didn’t get in. If anybody would like to give up where you’re standing or your seat, please raise your hand. All right. Then let’s begin, right? Thank you all very much though. This is great. No, they don’t get it. Down the road, they have a rally for one of the people that are going to be running tomorrow. They’re trying to get to a hundred, but they’re not going to make it. So I think they’re going to set up a round table. Well, that’s what they do. So people want to go to a rally, they end up sitting at a round table talking about their definition of impeachment. Crazy.

  (04:19)
No, it’s crazy. Crazy! It’s a crazy deal. No, the fake news media, they’ve been trying to figure this out for years. They still don’t get it though. They don’t get it. Look at all of those cameras. Look at all of those cameras. That’s a lot of cameras. That’s a lot of cameras, Lindsey and Tim, that’s a lot of… They heard you guys were here. They heard Tim was here and that Lindsey was here and that… And they said, “We’re not going to attend that rally,” but when we heard those two guys plus our great congressmen, they’re here, great congressmen. But this is an incredible time for our nation. We’re thrilled to be in the midst of what we call the Great American Comeback and that’s what it is. Jobs are booming, incomes are soaring, factories are returning, poverty is plummeting, confidence is surging, and we have completely rebuilt the awesome power of the United States military. Our country is stronger than ever before.

  (05:44)
We are stronger, we are better, but while we are building a great future, the radical left Democrats in Washington are trying to burn it all down. They have spent the last three years, and I can even go further than that, three years since the election, but we go before the election, working to erase your ballots and overthrow our democracy. But with your help, we have exposed the far left’s corruption and defeated their sinister schemes and let’s see what happens in the coming months. Let’s watch. Let’s just watch. Very dishonest people. Now the Democrats are politicizing the coronavirus, you know that right? Coronavirus, they’re politicizing it. We did one of the great jobs. You say, “How’s President Trump doing?” They go, “Oh, not good, not good.” They have no clue. They don’t have any clue. They can’t even count their votes in Iowa. They can’t even count. No, they can’t. They can’t count their votes.

  (07:07)
One of my people came up to me and said, “Mr. President, they tried to beat you on Russia, Russia, Russia.” That didn’t work out too well. They couldn’t do it. They tried the impeachment hoax. That was on a perfect conversation. They tried anything. They tried it over and over. They’d been doing it since you got in. It’s all turning. They lost. It’s all turning. Think of it. Think of it. And this is their new hoax. But we did something that’s been pretty amazing. We have 15 people in this massive country and because of the fact that we went early. We went early, we could have had a lot more than that. We’re doing great. Our country is doing so great. We are so unified. We are so unified. The Republican party has never ever been unified like it is now. There has never been a movement in the history of our country like we have now. Never been a movement. So a statistic that we want to talk about, go ahead. Say USA. It’s okay. USA. So a number that nobody heard of, that I heard of recently and I was shocked to hear it, 35,000 people on average die each year from the flu. Did anyone know that? 35,000, that’s a lot of people. It could go to 100,000, it could be 27,000. They say usually a minimum of 27, goes up to 100,000 people a year die. And so far we have lost nobody to coronavirus in the United States. Nobody. And it doesn’t mean we won’t and we are totally prepared. It doesn’t mean we won’t, but think of it. You hear 35 and 40,000 people and we’ve lost nobody and you wonder the press is in hysteria mode. CNN fake news and the camera just went off, the camera. The camera just went off. Turn it back on. Hey, by the way, hold it. Look at this, and honestly, all events are like this. It’s about us. It’s all about us. I wish they’d take the camera, show the arena please. They never do. They never do. They never do it. They never show the arena. You can hear it because when you hear it, that’s not 200 people. That’s not a hundred people. That’s thousands and thousands of people including people outside. You can hear it. They always show my face. See that face? They show my face. I want them to show the arena, not my face, right? How many have you been to? How many rallies have you gone?

Speaker 1: (11:00)
Every one!

  (11:01)
Practically every one. Can you believe it? I’m sure your husbands are thrilled, right? They’re thrilled. Where are you going tonight? I’m going to another Trump rally. Cool. Number 114. What do your husbands say about that? This group up here. She said, “We don’t care.” Thank you. Thank you. Democrats will only say horrible things even though they know we’re doing a great job. We’re doing a great job with what we have to work with. It’s incredible. The Democrats want us to fail so badly. Even if their actions, and you take a look, hurt the people of this country, they’ll hurt the people themselves, their wealth, their everything. They’re willing to hurt our country in order to say bad, even if they know it’s not so. We made an unbelievable deal with Mexico, with Canada, with China, with South Korea, with Japan. And if you put a microphone with these people back there like the Academy Awards used to be, not anymore. Best movie of the year. It’s made in South Korea. What’s that all about? I’m waiting to see the best movie of the year-

Speaker 2: (12:29)
It’s garbage!

  (12:30)
And it’s made… He said, “It’s garbage.” Only in South Carolina can you say that. Only in South Carolina. You’re going to get us in trouble. No, I’m just repeating what he said for the fake news. No, but seriously the Academy Awards has gone way, way down in ratings. Do you know why? Because they started attacking us and we don’t believe in it anymore. That’s why. No, but they had the best movie of the year made in South Korea. They make enough stuff for us, right? And they’re good. They’re our friends. Take advantage of us, that’s okay. Not so much anymore. We are really, you take a look, magnificently organized with the best professionals in the world. We’re prepared for the absolute worst. You have to be prepared for the worst, but hopefully it will all amount to very little. That’s why I tell you when we have the flu with 35,000 people and this one we have to take it very, very seriously. That’s what we’re doing. We are preparing for the worst.

  (13:50)
My administration has taken the most aggressive action in modern history to prevent the spread of this illness in the United States. We are ready. We are ready. Totally ready. On January 31st, I ordered the suspension of foreign nationals who have recently been in China from entering the United States. An action which the Democrats loudly criticized and protested and now everybody’s complimenting me saying, “Thank you very much. You were 100% correct.” Could’ve been a whole different story. But I say, so let’s get this right. A virus starts in China, bleeds its way into various countries all around the world, doesn’t spread widely at all in the United States because of the early actions that myself and my administration took against a lot of other wishes, and the Democrats’ single talking point, and you see it, is that it’s Donald Trump’s fault, right? It’s Donald Trump’s fault. No, just things that happened.

  (15:09)
But you know what this does show you? Things happen. Whoever thought of this two weeks ago? Who would’ve thought this could be going on four weeks ago? You wouldn’t. But things happen in life and you have to be prepared and you have to be flexible and you have to be able to go out and get it. And my guys that we have the best professionals in the world, the best in the world and we are so ready. At the same time that I initiated the first federally mandated quarantine in over 50 years. We had a quarantine some people. They weren’t happy, they weren’t happy about it. I want to tell you there are a lot of people that not so happy, but after two weeks they got happy. You know who got happy? The people around them got happy. That’s who got happy.

  (15:54)
I also created a White House virus task force. It’s a big thing, a virus task force. I requested 2.5 billion dollars to ensure we have the resources we need. The Democrats said, “That’s terrible. He’s doing the wrong thing. He needs eight and a half billion, not two and a half.” I’ve never had that before. I ask for two and a half, they want to give me eight and a half, so I said, “I’ll take it.” Does that make me a bad… I’ll take it. I’ll take it. I never had that before. I never had it. We want two and a half million. That’s plenty. We demand you take eight and a half. He doesn’t know what he’s doing. We want eight and a half. These people are crazy. We must understand that border security is also health security. And you’ve all seen the wall has gone up like magic. It’s gone up like magic. You think that was an easy one? That was not an easy one. It’s going up great and we’re up now 132 miles and this is the exact wall that border security, water, everything.

  (17:16)
This is everything they wanted, 132 miles already. We’ll have 500 miles built by very early next year sometime. One of the reasons the numbers are so good. We will do everything in our power to keep the infection and those carrying the infection from entering our country. We have no choice. Whether it’s the virus that we’re talking about or many other public health threats, the Democrat policy of open borders is a direct threat to the health and wellbeing of all Americans. Now you see it with the coronavirus, you see it. You see it with the coronavirus. You see that. When you have this virus or any other virus or any other problem coming in, it’s not the only thing that comes in through the border. And we’re setting records now at the border. We’re setting records. And now just using this, so important, right? So important. I’m doing well in the polls despite the worst fake news and worst presidential harassment in the history of the United States. We’ve got phenomenal numbers. No, it’s true. The worst presidential harassment in history.

  (18:35)
We had a great event yesterday, an event that was so beautiful, young African American leaders. One of the things I asked them, and I’ve been thinking about this for a long time… And great people, great people. Some of them are here tonight. Do you like the name African American or Black? And they said, “Black!” all at the same time. No, true. I tell you. Because you say, “African American or Black?” And they said almost immediately, “Black.” But we had an incredible group of people and what happened is NBC… It was such a love fest. It was so incredible. It went on for 45 minutes. It was a love fest. It was incredible. NBC turned down… There they are right there. They turned down… Comcast, which owns NBC… Actually NBC, I think, we call it MSDNC, right? MSDNC. But NBC I think is worse than CNN. I actually do. And Comcast, a company that spends millions and millions of dollars on their image… I’ll do everything possible to destroy their image because they are terrible. They are terrible. They’re a terrible group of people.

  (20:04)
And they paid me a fortune for years for the Apprentice. They paid me a fortune. And when I left the show, it was doing great. When I left the show, 14 seasons, think of that, they got a big movie star. I won’t tell you his name. Nobody would know. Actually nobody will know his name because he was on for such a short period of time. But the show went down the tubes very quickly after they had Trump. But the country in five years from now, of course you want to upset them, five years or nine years or 13 years. Or 18 years! 10 more years. Nah. Oh, they go crazy when you say it. When you say to them five more years, so it’s five, but you then say maybe nine, maybe 13, maybe 17, maybe 21, or not, maybe 21. Let’s do this. Let’s term limit ourselves at 25 years. No more than 25 years. No more. Okay. They’ll pass something in the Senate. Tim, pass it in the Senate with Lindsey, a 25 year term limit please.

  (21:44)
No, we’re looking to do a great job. We need that extra five to get everything solidified. It’s like you take a tree and you plant it, it needs some time to grab on, right? And that’s what we need. We’ve got incredible things that we’ve done. We have things we still can do, but we have done actually much, much more than we even promised we’d do. If you think over [inaudible 00:22:07. While the extreme left has been wasting America’s time with these vile hoaxes, we’ve been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border, and lifting up citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. We added another 225,000 jobs last month alone. And that makes seven million jobs since our election, seven million. The unemployment rate in the great state of South Carolina. You ever hear of that place?

  (22:56)
Now Sleepy Joe would say, “The unemployment rate in the great state of Ohio…” No, no. You’re in South Carolina. Joe! Joe, you’re in South Carolina. Come up. You ever see the guy with the note, “No, no, it’s South Carolina! It’s not Ohio.” Okay. Then he goes, “All right, Iowa. Did you say Iowa?” No. No. They did that seven times. If I did that once, it would be the end of the road, right? Be the end of the road. They’d say Trump has lost it. They like to say that anyway, I guess though. These people are bad people. Now, Sleepy Joe. Well, he’s running tomorrow. No, but could you imagine if I said just a small fraction of the mistakes he makes, which are unbelievable? Every speech. I actually said the other night, I was watching him when he said about half the population wiped out with guns. I said, “That’s a horrible thing. That’s the end of his evening. That’s the end of his political career.” And then after the debate, they’re revealing him and they said, “Joe Biden had a great night last night.” I don’t get it, Tim. The unemployment rate here in South Carolina has fallen to 2.3%, the lowest rate in your state’s history. The lowest rate in all of America. It’s the lowest rate in all of America. I said to a friend of mine, a Democrat, “How’s the race going tomorrow? Who’s going to win?” And he says, “Mr. President…” No, it’s very interesting. He said something. This guy’s a real political pro too, in all fairness, even though he’s a Democrat. But I said, “Who’s going to win?” He said, “Honestly, sir, it doesn’t matter. You are so far ahead in South Carolina that it’s meaningless.” Meaningless. That’s what they say. And in North Carolina too. In North Carolina.

  (24:56)
We’ve destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate. We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al Baghdadi is dead. He’s dead! He’s dead! And we recently took out the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever. But as we keep on winning Washington, Democrats keep on losing their minds. They’ve gone crazy. I mean Nervous Nancy, Crying Chuck Schumer, Crying [inaudible 00:25:57], bunch of losers. The good citizens of South Carolina have had a front row seat to the extremism of the Democrat candidates. Whether it’s this character that nobody ever heard of him. I’d never heard it. I thought I knew all the wealthy people. This guy Tom, Mr. Impeachment, how did that work out, Tom Hey, he spent millions and millions of dollars in Iowa, right? Millions. He got less than 1%. He got one third of 1%. I wrote a little note. Did you see it? It said, “Tom, it’s not so easy doing what I did. Is it?” Not so easy. Not so easy.

  (26:44)
All you have to do is ask Mini Mike. He’s in there for a fortune. He wished he never started. Mini Mike, he wished he never started. He said, “Well, Trump can do it. I’m going to do it too.” Unfortunately it’s not working out too well. Was that the worst debate performance in history? They had a big audience. Everybody wanted to see whether or not he was good at what we’re supposed to be doing up here. He turned out to be a total catastrophe. 35 million people, can you believe that? That’s a big audience. Very big. And what a killer. But this guy Steyer, he spends all this money. He’s not that wealthy. He spends all of this money and you shouldn’t waste your vote on him tomorrow. I have to be honest. By the way, are the Republicans allowed to vote anyway even though… Are you ready? You ready? Let’s do it together. I assume this is okay from a campaign finance standpoint, I assume. Lindsey, Tim, our great congressmen, are we allowed to do this? So am I allowed to request… First we-

  (28:03)
Congressman, are we allowed to do this? Am I allowed to request … First, we have to figure out who would be the weakest candidate against President Trump. And then if it’s legal, I always say if it’s permissible by law, because they have so many little booby traps, but they only like getting the Republicans. Democrats skirt, right? But we’ll see what happens about that. The Democrats. But let me ask you this. Lindsey, Tim, you’re pros. These are two of the greatest guys I know. So let me ask you this.

  (28:38)
So I don’t know what the record attendance is in this arena, but I was told that we broke it by a lot. And you got the people outside. Are we allowed to tell them who we would like them to vote for? Because you’re allowed to skip. All right, so wait a minute, let’s do a poll. We do this for the fake news back there. Ready? Who would be the best candidate for us? Not for them. We’re ready. Ready? So let’s go through them just quickly. We won’t include Steyer because he’s a loser. He’s out, okay? We won’t include him. Who would be the best? This is a real poll. This isn’t one of those fake polls taken by … In all fairness, I love you, Fox, taken by Fox, the worst pollster. This guy … this pollster hates Trump’s guts. I was losing the last election by a fortune. They said, “He did great with women.” Everything was wrong. And they never replaced this guy. But watch this. You ready?

  (29:43)
So first we’ll go … let’s say sleepy Joe, right? Right? Then we’ll go crazy Bernie. Then we’ll go mini Mike. I think he’s out of it. Should we include mini Mike or not? Mini Mike is gone. Mini Mike is gone. I think he’s gone. He doesn’t have a chance. So let’s not talk … and he’s not in your election anyways, so let’s forget. So mini Mike, I hear mini Mike, by the way, has left. He’s basically given up. That’s what I hear. He gave up. He gave up. Now, I hope what I just said keeps him in. You know, he’s the kind of a guy, he’ll stay in because, “I don’t want to be wrong.” Mike, it’s time to go home. Go home, Mike, and enjoy your life. Go home and spend some money on something.

  (30:36)
So let’s just go … okay. Do you agree we’ll go for the two … Look, Pocahontas, we can forget about her, right? Pocahontas. I came out with that name far too early because those burning embers they got … [inaudible 00:30:54] horrible to people. They said, “She’s not dumb, but she’s just damn mean. We can’t vote for her.” She’s a mean one. She is mean. So Pocahontas, should we leave her in or out?

Audience: (31:08)
Out.

  (31:11)
How about Klobuchar? Not going to happen. So really we’re down to two candidates, right? Sleepy Joe Biden and crazy Bernie. So this is a poll. I guarantee you this. As much as they hate me, they hate me. They’re going to put this all over the place. We have a poll of like 30,000 people inside and out. They’re doing it outside, too. We have a poll. Are you ready?

Audience: (31:42)
Yeah.

  (31:43)
Who do I … So in other words, who’s the weaker of the two? I’m not interested in who does better. No, no. I’m not interested … wait. Ready? In other words, who do I want to run against? Meaning … very simple. We put it into nice, simple language. Who the hell is easier to beat? So who is easier for us? Not me. For us to beat. Ready? Crazy Bernie? Or sleepy Joe? I don’t know. I think maybe a crazy Bernie has it a little bit. Once more just quick. Ready?

  (32:34)
He said, “It doesn’t matter, you’ll beat them all.”

  (32:37)
I hope so. I hope so. So who is easier to beat, crazy Bernie or sleepy Joe? They think Bernie’s easier to beat. They think Bernie’s easier to beat. So whether it’s Bernie Sanders’ plan to eliminate private healthcare, Elizabeth Warren’s plan. I told you that I had more Indian blood in me than her, even though I have none. I have none. Zero. I have none. I have none. I said I have more Indian blood in me than she has. And she choked. She said, “I’m going to show. I’m going to show.” She hired this company and they went out and did a blood test. 1,024th, right? So that means I probably one somewhere down the line a million years ago.

  (33:37)
I’m telling you, that was horrible. She choked. We don’t want a person to win that chokes. We don’t want to choke artist, right? One thing you will say about me, I’m not a choker. With all these people for years, they’re after me years. We can’t have chokers. We can’t have chokers as your president. So Elizabeth Warren’s plan to eliminate America’s borders. That’s what she would … or mini Mike’s plan to eliminate your Second Amendment and take away your guns. How about that? Mini Mike wants to take away your guns. The insanity of the Democrat party is why millions of registered Democrat voters are joining our movement. They are joining our great new Republican party. This November, we are going to take back the House. We are going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House.

  (34:47)
I wonder what they say when they go down the road and they see these groups of 200 people. Seriously. I wonder what they say. They never talk about it. They’ll say, “Joe Biden had a fabulous crowd today.” Fabulous. So fabulous that there’s like five people. And they’ll leave and they’ll say, “President Trump had a smattering of applause.” Smattering. They use the word smattering a lot. This is not … let’s let them hear it. This is not a … this is a big … this is not a smattering. It’s not a smattering. Turn the cameras. That’s not a smattering. That is not a smattering.

  (35:32)
I hate it. They say Donald Trump … In India, I hate to say this to you, but … so they actually have 129,000 seat stadium. Did you see it? The place was packed, and they did better than most. They gave me credit for 100,000. That was not bad. It’s 129. The stadium holds 100. They had a field that’s about three times … it’s cricket. It’s the biggest stadium. And they had 129. I was with the Prime Minister of India, Modi. Great guy, loved by the people of India. And we had an amazing thing. And I went in, and here’s the problem. This is a big crowd. And normally I like talking about my crowds because I get the crowds like nobody, but I just got back from 140 or 50 or 60,000 people and now I’m coming here. What does this place hold, 15? It’s hard to be enthused. You understand that?

  (36:22)
I may never be excited again about a crowd after going to India. Think of this, they have 1.5 billion people. We have 350, so we’re doing pretty well, I’ll tell you what, but I love this crowd, and I love that crowd too. Tell you they have a great love for … They have a great love. They have a great leader, and they have a great love for the people of this country. That was really a worthwhile trip. With us tonight are both of your incredible US Senators. Two incredible friends, two warriors. Senator Lindsey Graham and Senator Tim Scott, come up here. And by the way, Tim’s incredible mother is right here in the front row. As they’re doing that, they got this big … I was going to almost do a poll on the two of them, but we’re not doing that. But Lindsey is a true fighter for South Carolina. Loves your state. And as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee … you know that, right? He’s the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. So important. So important. Senator Graham has been leading the charge to help us confirm a record number of judges to uphold the Constitution as written. Lindsey was amazing, you remember, for Justice Brett Kavanaugh? Remember how badly he … Great job, Lindsey. Great job, man. Thank you.

  (38:38)
Senator Scott is a leading superstar. He’s a superstar. But he is a leader in lowering healthcare costs like nobody has done it. People don’t know, but in the last year, prescription drug prices came down for the first time in 51 years. And that was with no Democrat help. If we had the help, we could lower it by 50%. But we’ll get their help. One of these days, they’re going to get smart. Senator Scott provides world class care for our veterans. What he’s done for our veterans is incredible. And bringing investment to distressed communities across our country through opportunity zones, including 135 right here in South Carolina. That’s what it is. Tim Scott came to my office with an idea. He said, “Opportunity zone.” I said, “Tim, what the hell is that?” What is it? Right, Tim?

Tim Scott: (39:48)
Yes, sir.

  (39:48)
And he went through a whole big thing and I said, “This maybe could work,” and we tried it. It is an incredible success, and what he’s done for this country is incredible. It’s incredible. Lindsey. We’ll start with Lindsey. Say a few words, please. Thank you.

Lindsey Graham: (40:09)
Welcome to South Carolina, Mr. President. You know why you’re going to win? You’ve been a damn good president. Thank you for 200 conservative judges. Thank you for Justice Kavanaugh and Justice Gorsuch. Thank you for rebuilding the military and killing the terrorists. Thank you for the strongest economy in my lifetime. Thank you, more than anything else, for putting up with the never-ending bullshit you have to go through.

Tim Scott: (40:58)
All right. USA.

Audience: (41:16)
USA.

Tim Scott: (41:16)
USA.

Audience: (41:16)
USA, USA.

Tim Scott: (41:16)
USA.

Audience: (41:16)
USA.

Tim Scott: (41:16)
USA.

Audience: (41:16)
USA. USA.

Tim Scott: (41:33)
USA. If South Carolina … I said, if South Carolina is Trump country, let me hear you scream. If you have benefited from the Trump economy, let me hear you scream.

Tim Scott: (42:32)
Okay. One last thing. One last thing.

Tim Scott: (42:36)
One last thing. If you want four more years of President Trump, let me hear you scream.

Audience: (42:46)
Four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years.

  (43:13)
Well, that was quite a display, wasn’t it? Now there’s a lot of love in this room. A lot of people say to me, friends of mine, they’ve very successful. They’ll say, “How do you speak in front of 25,000 people and 10,000 people and all of this?” You know why? There’s such love in the room it’s easy. No, it’s true. There is such … I explained, they don’t understand it, because they’re not for doing that, but I say there is such unbelievable love in the room that it’s easy to do. Very easy. Right? It’s sort of easy to do. We’re also thrilled to be joined by many more great leaders from across the state. And some of you maybe know I liked this guy for a long time, Governor Henry McMaster. Come up, Henry. Come up, Henry.

  (44:04)
Representatives Joe Wilson, Jeff Duncan, William Timmons, Ralph Norman, Tom Rice, and the Chairman of the South Carolina Republican party, Drew McKissick.

  (44:20)
[inaudible 00:44:20] Hi, fellas. [inaudible 00:44:40]

Speaker 3: (44:40)
Thank you, Mr. President.

  (44:55)
As I introduce somebody, and I’ll just say stay there because he was brave, but he got hit hard. He’s a very special man, retired Marine Corps, major general, and most of you know he received the Congressional Medal of Honor, James E. Livingston. James, just relax. Where’s James? He got hit hard. Thank you, James. Congressional Medal of Honor winner. Thank you, James.

  (45:39)
They are great brave people. You know, we have the Congressional Medal of Honor and we have the Presidential Medal of Freedom, and they’re both the highest awards. One civilian, one is military. I always say getting the Presidential Medal of Freedom is much less painful because when I read them off, I’ll read like with James or with so many of the Congressional Medal of Honors, many are not living, to be honest with you. And I’ll read stories where one of them recently going up a hill, hit 19 times by gunfire, grabbing four people, bringing them down, getting onto a helicopter, falling out of the helicopter, hitting a tree on the way down. Hitting a tree. They went back and saved him, but he died later. I mean, those are tough deals. Those are tough deals. We have one right here who’s living. We have one right here who’s living. But they are tough. So thank you very much for being here. And maybe I could ask our governor, our great governor of this incredible state, to say a few words. Please, Henry.

Henry McMaster: (46:56)
Who is the greatest president in the whole world whom we love more than anybody in the world? They love you. And what is the name of the president who loves you?

Audience: (47:11)
Trump.

Henry McMaster: (47:15)
And whom are we going to send back to the White House for four more glorious years?

Audience: (47:20)
Trump.

Henry McMaster: (47:22)
And what is the greatest country on the face of the earth?

Audience: (47:25)
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.

  (47:33)
[inaudible 00:47:33] thank you, fellas.

Henry McMaster: (47:49)
Alan Wilson [inaudible 00:47:49].

  (47:53)
Thank you very much. And where’s Alan? Is your son here? You’re great son, Attorney General? Alan, thank you very much. Take good care of him, okay? Thank you. Thank you, Alan. And thanks to Republicans all over America. We are now working on things that nobody ever thought possible. Since my election, over 121,000 new jobs have been created right here in South Carolina. We’ve lifted 10 million people off welfare, including 7 million off of food stamps. And that’s a good thing, not a bad thing. They’re working and they have great jobs and they love getting up in the morning and they’re making much more money and it costs our country nothing. We make money, they pay taxes. It’s a whole different deal.

  (48:47)
Median household income has reached the highest level in the history of our country. The unemployment rate nationwide has hit the lowest rate in over 50 years. The average unemployment rate from my administration is the lowest for any US president in recorded history. How about that one? It’s a good one. That’s a good one. The unemployment rate among African-Americans, Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans has reached record lows. Black youth unemployment has reached an all time low. Black poverty levels are the lowest ever recorded in the history of our country.

  (49:40)
For decades, Democrat politicians betrayed African-Americans. They forced their children into failing schools. They shipped their jobs to foreign countries. They pushed their unfair sentencing policies. You know about Alice? You know Alice? And they favored illegal aliens over their own constituents. You know that. That’s been happening for a long time. My administration is reversing these failed policies and delivering record gains for African-Americans. We are going to compete for every single vote in 2020, and we expect to win a historic share of the black vote come election day. We are supporting working families by fighting paid … we got something that nobody thought could happen: Paid family leave. Reducing the cost of childcare and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 more in their pocket thanks to the Republican Child Tax Credit. Republican, not Democrat. We are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that decimated manufacturing all across your state and all across our country. For years, politicians sold you out to global special interests, enriching other countries at your expense. That ended. That ended. But I am not the president of the globe. I don’t want to be the president of the world. I am the president of the United States of America.

  (51:46)
Last month, we finally ended the NAFTA catastrophe, and I signed the brand new US-Mexico-Canada agreement into law. The USMCA is a tremendous, giant, beautiful victory for South Carolina farmers, ranchers, manufacturers all across the state. Nothing like it, what you had to go through with NAFTA. Everybody was leaving. It was a disgrace that it was ever signed. You know it better than anybody. You had those empty hopes all over the country, all over this state. All around the world, we are demanding trade that is fair and my all time favorite word: reciprocal. Reciprocal. Got to be fair.

  (52:32)
After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. We are finally putting America first. On no issue of Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than the issue of immigration. Every Democrat running for president supports free federal welfare for illegal aliens funded by you, the American taxpayer. They want to treat illegal aliens, people that come into our country illegally, better than they want to treat our military and our veterans. Not only does illegal immigration drain our treasury, but it threatens innocent lives. I recently invited to the White House the granddaughter of a 92 year old woman who was raped, beaten, brutalized, and murdered by an illegal alien who had previously been set free in New York City.

  (53:39)
Here in Charleston County, an illegal alien was recently charged with sexually assaulting a young girl in the fourth grade. In Berkeley County, officers captured a previously deported MS-13 gang member who shot a man to death before dousing the body in gasoline and setting him on fire. And he should have never been in our country. He shouldn’t have been allowed.

Audience: (54:18)
Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.

  (54:18)
It’s being built.

Audience: (54:18)
Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.

  (54:26)
It’s being built.

  (54:29)
By the way, just in case you haven’t heard, it is being built. That, you know. And they’re going to go nuts. They’re going to go nuts. They thought they got me. They said, “Okay.” Have you heard them recently? “Okay. He’s building the wall.” And you think it’s easy getting that kind of money to build a wall when I have a whole party and a deep State and some never-Trumpers? They’re a dying breed though. The good thing, they’re on respirator. They’re on respirator. They’re on mouth to mouth resuscitation. You can do it. I’m not doing it. They’re on mouth to mouth resuscitation, the never-Trumpers. But you think it’s easy. It’s not. But that’s been built. But you know what they say now. “Okay. He’s building the wall, but Mexico’s not paying for it.” Yes they are, actually. They are. They are. They are paying for it.

  (55:28)
And some of the fake news knows that, but they refuse to report it, but that’s okay. You’ll see. You’ll see what’s going on. And I want to thank Mexico because, by the way, right now they have 27,000 soldiers on our border protecting our border. We have Mexico protecting our border. And they only do that for Trump. They don’t do that for sleepy Joe. They don’t do that for crazy Bernie. And they don’t do it for mini Mike, that’s for sure. They’re only doing that for Trump, right? 27,000 soldiers protecting our border. In this region …

  (56:03)
… thousand soldiers protecting our border. In this region of the country alone last year, ICE … They’ve been treated so badly, right? They are great. They’re brave. They’re tough. Any men? There are tough guys in here, but anybody want to be an ICE officer? It’s tough stuff, right? They go into those nests. They call them nest. That’s where these guys get together and they knock the hell. I mean, if they have to … I have to be very careful. I don’t want to get them in trouble, because the press wants us to be very politically correct. So let me change it around. They go into a nest of MS13, and they say, “Oh, hello gentlemen. How are you?” On occasion, they have a fight. They never lose those fights. We need people like that. “Hello gentleman. How are you? How many people did you kill last year? How many people did you get kill last year with a knife,” because they like knives because it’s more painful. This is the kind of people that we were letting into our country. ICE has taken them out of our country by the thousands. By the thousands.

  (57:13)
Last year, ICE officers arrested 12,000 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses, including robbery, rape and many for a thing called murder. On Wednesday we won the big case in federal court. Did you see that? Did you see that? We won the case unanimously. Unanimously. Federal appeals court, where we don’t have to give money to sanctuary cities and States if they don’t work with us, finally. Finally. Finally. Why should we?

  (57:58)
Yet the Democrat candidates oppose all detention of illegal aliens. They want unfettered catch and release. We have ended that program. It was not easy. We have to go through courts. Everything is a court. Everything is a suit. We do anything. We turn to the right, they sue us. We turn to the left, they sue us. We win. But we’re winning. We have 218 judges now. It’s good. Let me just preface that by saying I know they give fair opinions. It bears no relationship to who appoints them, but I never win with an Obama appointed judge ever. I don’t win. No, we have great judges going onto the courts. Great judges. They’re fair judges. They’re judges that truly love our constitution. It’s great.

  (58:53)
They’re judges that if we feel it’s right, they don’t want to invite the world to trespass across our borders. Very simple. The democrat field also supports deadly sanctuary cities that release violet criminal aliens. You know that. You’ve been reading. All you have to do is pick up a paper every day. They release these horrible criminals to terrorize our communities. We don’t do that anymore. We won’t let it happen, and now we don’t have to give sanctuary cities and states the money that they’re going to want. It’s a whole game changer.

  (59:28)
They don’t even want to report it. “I don’t know. I didn’t see much.” They keep talking about the virus. “Oh, the virus. Is Trump doing a good job? Oh, I don’t think so. Gee, I don’t think so.” Chucky Schumer: “I don’t think he’s doing a good job.” This guy doesn’t know he’s alive. Oh, what bad people. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.

  (59:56)
Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings by a staggering 75% since last spring, and we have ended catch and release permanently. You know what catching release is? We catch them, we grab them. We say, “Could we please have your address?” “Address? I don’t know what the hell is an address?” They don’t have an address. “Could we have a number? Do you have a phone? Could we call your mother or your father and say in four years you have to come to court.” What they do is they catch him, they get some information that the guy has no idea where he lives, and it’s one of those things in many cases, and then release. We release him into our country. We don’t do that anymore. If you knew what it took …

  (01:00:50)
We catch them, and we take some information and we release them in, and we say, “Please report back in four years from now for your trial.” About 2% come back, and they’re the ones that are the dumbest people I’ve ever seen. 2%. Nobody comes back. It’s crazy, but we’re getting a change. It would be so easy. They call it loopholes. Loopholes. That word alone, they call it loopholes. It would be so easy if we had some democrat support. We don’t have any Democrat support. They want open borders. They don’t care about crime. Border Patrol has seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics ever in the history of our country this last year. We have deported record numbers of gang members. We are building the wall faster than ever, and we will soon be rebuilding more than one mile a day.

  (01:01:48)
Washington democrats have never been more extreme. 132 congressional democrats have signed up for Bernie Sanders’ healthcare takeover. They want to take away your healthcare. While the Washington Democrats are trying to destroy your healthcare and to destroy your social security. That’s what’s going to happen. My administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare. We are defending your right to keep the doctor and to keep your plan of choice. Remember when President Obama would say, “You can keep your doctor. You could keep your plan.” 28 times. He said, “You can keep your doctor and you can keep your plan.” Well, he lied. We should impeach him. We should impeach him for that. He lied 28 times. “You’ll keep your doctor, keep your plan. It’s wonderful. Great.” Went through the roof. We’re doing a great job.

  (01:02:52)
We killed the individual mandate, which is the most unbelievable, horrible. It’s not really Obamacare anymore, but we’re running the hulk of it and we’re trying to kill it entirely, and then we will put it back. You’ll have great health care, and preexisting conditions will be totally protected. Preexisting conditions will be totally protected. We’re making healthcare better and much cheaper. While premiums more than doubled in the five years before I took office, we are now offering plans already that are up to 60% less expensive than the old Obamacare. Think of that and better. And better.

  (01:03:37)
We are stopping surprise medical billing, a disgrace. I signed an executive order imposing price transparency, because when providers are required to show their prices, which they don’t have to do, but now they do, those same prices fall very, very fast. We have approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the name brand drugs, but at a tiny fraction of the cost. They’re just as good. I always like a name brand. I mean, there’s something. There’s no difference. Probably sometimes they’re better. We’ve totally transformed veteran’s healthcare, getting long ought VA choice and VA accountability passed after 50 years.

  (01:04:29)
Hopefully nobody in this great arena needs it, but we have passed something that they said couldn’t happen: the spectacular right to try. You know what that is? If you’re terminally ill, you go all over the world. If you have no money, you can’t. You go home and you die. You’re terminally ill. They go all over the world. If they have money, they go to Asia, they go to Europe. They’re searching. We have the greatest doctors in the world, the greatest labs in the world, greatest technicians in the world, and we have pipelines of drugs coming out for different problems. Now, you sign a piece of paper. We’re not going to hold anybody liable. You get to use that drug, and the results have been unbelievable. Unbelievable.

  (01:05:14)
Hopefully you don’t need it, but now we have right to try. They’ve been trying for 51 years to get that approved. 51 years, and we got it approved. I guess I’m good at getting things approved, aren’t I? Those people that I brought up here where the reason too, every one of them. They were incredible. Thank you. Thank you. Senators, Congressman, they were the reasons.

  (01:05:40)
We are combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 32 years. We have launched new initiatives combating kidney disease, which is a big deal. Kidney disease is so tough that people die literally because it’s so much work. They die from overwork. It’s just crazy. In theory, they could keep them going for a long time, but the work and the dialysis and all of the things they have to do. We’ve done things that make it so much easier, and it’s just such an honor to be involved. Also, Alzheimer’s disease, we’re really making strides. It’s really a great thing. Great thing.

  (01:06:25)
we’re pursuing new advances in neonatal research to care for America’s youngest patients and breaking all records in so doing. Virtually every Democrat candidate has declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the very moment of birth. That is why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion of babies, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift of God. The Democrat Party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total obliteration of your second amendment. The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and of course the late, great Abraham Lincoln.

  (01:07:41)
Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community, and every walk of life. We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy and enthusiasm. We are a big tent. We are a big party. We are the party of big ideas for the future. This is where it is. This is where it is. this is not the old Republican Party. This is a very inclusive party. This is a great party. Republicans are proudly fighting for nationwide school choice, including right here in South Carolina. We want to give school choice to every child in America who needs it, from kindergarten to 12th grade, because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.

  (01:08:38)
I passed criminal justice reform to give former prisoners a second chance at life. That’s a big deal. This could not have been done by anyone but the Republican Party. They came to me, a group of people, and they wanted criminal justice reform. I wasn’t sure about the issue, but we had a lot of great Republicans, very much in favor of it, including people that happen to be right here today. They were very much, and I started studying the issue, worked hard on the issue, and criminal justice reform. You saw Alice Johnson come out of prison. 22 years. She had another 20 years left. Think of it. For a phone call. For a phone call. A great woman, but we have many people coming out that shouldn’t be there for anywhere near those terms. Not for those terms.

  (01:09:31)
But they came to see me, a group. A group of people came. Van Jones, he came up. “Oh, thank you, sir.” They needed four senators. They needed help. I called Lindsey, I called everybody. I called Tim, who’s so great on everything. I called everybody. They needed four senators and maybe five, and they needed help with some of the ones that weren’t moving in the right direction. I gave it to them, and I got it, and it was not easy. We get criminal justice reform, and then I signed it. Then this Van Jones has a program that gets no ratings absolutely at all. They say, “Van Jones wants to thank everybody for criminal justice reform.” I called our great first lady over. I said, “Darling, please take a look. It’s going to be so nice, because honestly, look, they couldn’t have done even close without me.” I got all these people together, got them done. It was impossible. Previous presidents couldn’t even think about it. They couldn’t even think about doing it, and they tried, although I don’t think they tried too hard, bur they could have never done it.

  (01:10:32)
So he gets up, and he starts by saying, “I want to thank the Reverend Al Sharpton. I knew Al when he was very heavy. He looked better when he was heavy. It’s true. He’s one of the few people, he really looked better when he was heavy. He looked much better when he was heavy. I’ve got to tell him. I have to explain, because I know him very well. He would admit that he has a lot of respect for your president, but he can’t admit it on television.” But he called and he said, “I want to take the Reverend Al Sharpton,” and then name after name after name of people that I never heard of. My wife said, “Are they going to think about you, right? Are they going to think about you?” I said, “Darling, of course.” I said, “He’s saving me til the end, because I was by far.” It’s true. This is true, Tim. Lindsay, this is true.

  (01:11:27)
I said, “He’s saving me til the end. It’s going to be such an honor to be recognized, because I don’t get enough publicity. I need a little bit more.” He got to the end and he didn’t say it, and she looked at me. She sort of smiled. I think she loved it in a certain way. But she sort of smiled. She said, “That’s too bad.” I said, “Yeah, it is.” Then he said, “I have one more thing to say. We must get out this year and fight and vote against this President of the United States.” Can you believe that? It’s true? It’s a true story. Van Jones. These are just terrible that they could … I was a little embarrassed in front of our great first lady, but I’ll live through it somehow.

  (01:12:16)
I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. We recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. 52 years. 52 years that Golan Heights had been fighting and fighting for it. I did it, and I did the true capital, Jerusalem, right? How many presidents promise that? Every president for many, many decades promised we’re going to do that. They never did it. I did it. We did a lot. We’ve invested more than $2 trillion in the United States military, including more than $150 million this year in Joint Base Charleston, Fort Jackson, and Paris Island. We created the sixth branch of the American Armed Forces, the Space Force. We have another branch. 72 years. Not for 72 years, the Air Force, have they done a new branch. We did the Space Force.

  (01:13:33)
When I first said it, everybody thought I was joking. I said, “I’m not joking.” They thought it was from the comic strips or the future movies. I said, “No, it’s all about space.” In a number of years, people are going to say, “I can’t believe we didn’t do this sooner.” We need a little vision. We need a little foresight. You know what? I mentioned Space Force. At arenas like this, it gets one of the biggest hands, because that’s where it’s at. That’s where it’s going, unfortunately, or fortunately. We needed it for defense. We needed it for offense. Sixth branch. 72 years. For years, we watched as your politicians apologize for America.

  (01:14:11)
Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of South Carolina. At stake in our present battle is the actual survival of our nation. I really believe that it’s the survival. You see these maniacs that we’re dealing with. They want to give away everything. We will end up being Venezuela large scale version. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for, to secure, then we must devote everything we have towards a victory in November of 2020, November 3rd to be exact. Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the swamp. I never thought it was this deep.

  (01:15:14)
Man. I talked about a swamp. You never told me it was this bad, fellas. That swamp is bad. You got dirty cops at the top of the FBI. You got a lot of dirty people, but you also have phenomenal people in the FBI and other places, but we’re draining that swamp. I never knew it was going to be this dirty, and we’re getting a lot of help from a lot of great people. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. That’s what’s happening. Think of it. From poverty to prosperity. Look at some of the stories that you have over there. Look at some of the incredible stories. Look at Tim Scott. Look at that incredible story. No, really. It’s an incredible story. Lindsay will say it.

  (01:16:10)
I give about 99% of the credit to Tim Scott’s mother. I do. I guarantee you, Tim, there was no games, right? There was no games in your household. It was let’s go to work, right? Great mother. Thank you very much. Thank you. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system finally of immigration. We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.” We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer, infectious diseases like we’re working on right now, and ending the AIDS epidemic. Nobody thought this was possible in less now than nine years, and it should have been started before. We will end the AIDS epidemic. Who would have thought we could have done that?

  (01:17:16)
We will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant our flag on Mars. You have to land on moon, and then you go to Mars. We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag, and we live by the words of our national motto, “In God we trust.”

  (01:18:45)
From Greenville to Columbia and from Myrtle Beach to Hilton Head to right here in Charleston, this state is home to some of the toughest men and strongest women ever to walk on the face of the earth. It’s true. It’s true. True. We stand on the shoulders of American Patriots who have crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, lay down the railroads, revolutionized industry, liberated millions from poverty, hunger and disease, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater every single day.

Speaker 4: (01:19:39)
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!

  (01:19:55)
Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.

Speaker 4: (01:20:20)
Winning, winning!

  (01:20:28)
You have the best year ever on record, right? Southeast, best year you’ve ever had, right? You have a great governor, you have two senators, great congressman, the greatest year you’ve ever had, but some people in South Carolina are getting a little tired, I’m surprised to hear this, of winning. I’ve very surprised to hear this. Some actually called in two great senators into a big meeting, a town hall, and they said, “Senator Scott, Senator Lindsay Graham, we’re tired of winning and South Carolina. Can’t do it anymore. It’s too much. It’s too much. We’ve had years where we weren’t winning, and it was okay. We couldn’t get jobs. We took it easy, but we just want you to go and see your friend, the president, and we want you to represent us. We want you to say, ‘Mr. President, South Carolina is tired of winning. We don’t want to win anymore. We are tired, sick, tired of winning.'”

  (01:21:27)
They’re going to come in and say, “Sir, I hate to tell you, but the people of South Carolina don’t want to win anymore.” I’ll say, “Mr. Senators, let me tell you something. South Carolina does want to win. They want to win more than anybody, and we’re not going to change a thing, because we’re winning like never before. You know what? We’re going to keep it that way. Sorry, senators. Go back to South Carolina, senators.” Go back to South Carolina, because we are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of South Carolina, the best is yet to come.

  (01:22:15)
The best is yet to come. The best is yet to come, because together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.

Speaker 4: (01:22:37)
Make American great again!

  (01:22:38)
Thank you, South Carolina. Thank you.





  (01:19)
Well, thank you very much. And hello Las Vegas. Great to be with you. They have a big election tomorrow. We’ve already won the state. We’ve already won. I like ours better. We just take it. Just take it. We’ve won it. I like it that better.

  (01:37)
You know they say they’re going to have a lot of problems tomorrow. I hate to tell you this. I don’t know. Have you heard? I hear their computers are all messed up. Just like they were in Iowa. They’re not going to be able to count their vote. They’re going to tell you about healthcare. They’re going to tell you about our military and the jet fighters and the missiles and rockets, but they can’t count votes. They just can’t count them. They can’t count votes, but they’re saying they may not be able to do it again. They’re still trying to tell us. I called up yesterday, how are they doing in Iowa? Was that two weeks ago? They say we’re getting close. They’re not getting close, they’ll never know. They’ll never know, but I hear the same thing could happen tomorrow. I hope it doesn’t, actually.

Crowd: (02:22)
I love you President Trump.

  (02:23)
I hope it doesn’t, but I’m delighted to be back in a state I love. I have a beautiful building right down the road. With the proud, hardworking patriots of Nevada. You’re going to say Nevada. You say that wrong, you got problems. You say Nevada, they go, what the hell? Got to be Nevada.

  (02:55)
With your help this November, we’re going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats and we are going to win Nevada in a big beautiful landslide. Now, we have some special people here, you know the special very special people.

  (03:17)
And we celebrate one of the greatest moments in the history of sports. Some people say it was the single greatest moment in the history of sports. It was called the miracle on ice. Do you remember that? That was when the Russians had a team assembled. That was probably, they say maybe the greatest team ever assembled. They were unbelievable. And our guys played a practice game with them was it a couple of weeks before, and I hate to tell you the score was 10 to 3, and the USA was not on top, and this team was an incredible team and they went in and it was amazing, but tomorrow marks the 40 years since the United States men’s hockey team defeated then Soviet Union team in the 1980 Olympics.

  (04:15)
Incredible. That was incredible. Most of you remember that. I’m looking. We’ve got a lot of young ones, but we’ve got a lot of people that remember that. A lot of people. And by the way, we got the Olympics coming back or coming to Los Angeles. Thank you. Thank you President Trump. Thank you President Trump. Thank you very much. Thank you President Trump. Eight years. Eight years, 2028 you know what? Unless I’m still president then, which is a distinct possibility, I won’t be here, and you know what they’ll do? I’ll say, how’s the Olympics going? Does anybody have a ticket for the president that got the Olympics to come here? They’ll say, I want to thank and they’ll thank hundreds of people, but they won’t thank you president that I’m the one that pulled it off. But that’s okay. 2028 Olympics is coming to Los Angeles. It’s going to be great.

  (05:27)
And we worked with the mayor of Los Angeles. He was great. He called up and we gave him a lot of help. I was president elect then because the president didn’t want to get involved. He didn’t want to get involved in getting the Olympics, so they called me and I was president elect, hadn’t taken office. Then I got involved and I’ll tell you, they were happy we got involved. It was great. It’s going to be very exciting today.

  (05:49)
We are thrilled to have with us 14 players of that really incredible gold medal team. Give him a big hand. And they were amazed. They said, boy is a big crowd. I said, it’s only because you guys are coming.

  (06:10)
This day was supposed to be for this evening. And I said, let me get back to Washington, do it early. So we gave you almost no notice. You have thousands of people outside, thousands of people inside. You had to see, we were in Iowa we were in New Hampshire. You saw what happened in Colorado last. That was unbelievable. Every place we go it’s the same. It’s been incredible.

  (06:37)
I don’t know if you saw the pictures last night of the outside in Colorado. It was incredible. It was. You could have filled that arena up four times and it was a big arena, and it’s something.

  (06:49)
So I hated to do it to you at 12 o’clock but I said, let’s go. I want to get back. We got to deal with China. We got to deal with Russia. We got to deal with North Korea, South Korea. We got to deal with the rest of the world. Get my people back. We got to get the hell out of here, right? But we have a lot of time. I’d like now to invite these incredible sport legends to join me on stage. A friend of mine and a very good golfer, by the way, Captain Mike he rode a bike. Mike. Where’s Mike? Where is he? Mike. Do you know who he is? He’s a fake handicap is what he is. Say something Mike.

Mike Eruzione: (07:38)
Just welcome everybody to ironic we happen to be here to celebrate our 40th anniversary, the Vegas Knights flew the whole team out to honor us tonight and for the weekend and we obviously thank the people of Las Vegas for having us here and we’re looking forward to celebrating a special time, and it’s a great honor for the president to invite us to be part of this event as well. So Vegas, thanks for having us.

  (08:01)
But just tell them, am I a good athlete and am I a good golfer?

Mike Eruzione: (08:10)
You are. Yes sir. Whatever you say.

  (08:16)
Thanks Mike. That was some goaltending right? How many did you rebuff?

Mike Eruzione: (08:23)
[inaudible 00:08:24].

  (08:24)
I mean, but how many did Jim have? Many did.

Mike Eruzione: (08:27)
Very few.

  (08:28)
Very few. But a lot of shots, right?

Mike Eruzione: (08:29)
A lot of shots.

  (08:30)
He was like a pinata.

Mike Eruzione: (08:33)
Yes.

  (08:35)
So Mike, that was great. Goaltender Jim Craig. So Jim rebuffed come here, Jim. Great goaltender, great goaltender. They didn’t know what was happening. They kept shooting. He doesn’t know how many you rebuffed. How many did you rebuff?

Jim Craig: (08:56)
37.

  (09:01)
37. So let me ask you, was that as goaltender, because that was incredible. Was that the greatest game you ever played? You’ve had a lot of great games. But was that the greatest game you’ve ever played?

Jim Craig: (09:09)
It was an important.

  (09:10)
It was slightly important. 37. 37. Bill Baker. Bill, come up. Bill Baker. Dave Christian, Ken Morrow, Jack O’Callahan, Mike Ramsey.

Speaker 1: (09:46)
Walk like an old hockey player.

  (09:47)
Those legs took a beating. Mark Wells, Neil Brotton, John Harrington, Rob McClanahan, Buzz Schneider, Dave Silk, Phil Verchota, and a great coach and assistant coach at the time, Craig Patrick.

Crowd: (10:24)
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.

  (10:52)
They said four more years, 12 more years left for them. Look at that. Look at the press. Hey Mike, look at the fake news back there. It’s a lot. I always say that’s like the Academy Awards used to be. This year, we had a movie, they said best movie, they announced the movie from South Korea. I said, what’s that all about? The movie was made in South Korea. Look, I get along great with South Korea, but you know, I never saw that one before. They used to go best foreign movie, but now we do it that way.

  (11:36)
I don’t get it, but that’s what it used to be and this is really an incredible time. I’ll tell you what, for our country, that’s why I like to see things that we do get honored because nobody is doing what we do. Nobody can do it like us.

  (11:50)
We’re the greatest country in the world again. We have the greatest people. We have the greatest military by far. We’ve totally rebuilt our military. Jobs are booming, incomes are surging, poverty is plummeting. Factories are returning confidence is soaring, like these guys, the confidence is soaring, but you know, we do have somebody that I’d like to point out because this team is, they had a coach, and that coach was a very inspirational coach, would you say Mike? And I’d like to have maybe one of you come up and just say a few words about Coach Brooks because he was very, very, he was really a big, he was a big heart on this team. Please.

Mike Eruzione: (12:41)
I think it would be appropriate if you’ve got a few minutes that Herb Brooks’ daughter Kelly is here representing her father. And I can honestly tell you that Kelly was not ready for this at all. You got it?

  (13:05)
Say something.

Mike Eruzione: (13:06)
Her dad was an amazing coach. He was a great teacher. He was a great motivator at times, maybe too much of a motivator. He was very demanding. He was very difficult to play for. But trust me on one thing, there never once was a day that we didn’t respect the man and never once was a day that we didn’t trust him and what he was trying to do. He orchestrated the greatest sports moment of the 20th century and the guys behind me were so proud and honored to have been a part of him and what he was able to put together. It was a perfect environment, a perfect storm sometimes. Not only a great coach, but great players and great people that stand behind me now. So if Kelly would like to say a couple of words. No, she doesn’t.

Kelly Brooks: (14:02)
Thank you. I’m honored that his legacy still is alive today and he would be proud to be here with you all. In my personal opinion, he would have been a Trump fan.

  (14:17)
So tell me one thing, one thing. So I see those tears. That means you think, you miss him and you love him. Right? Was he actually a nice guy? Because he looked tough. Mike was just saying he was brutal, but he was a good guy, right?

Kelly Brooks: (14:37)
Right.

  (14:38)
Tough but great. Thank you very much. Thanks Kelly. Thank you all. Greatest sports story could be number one.

Crowd: (15:09)
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.

  (15:30)
So a lot of people, a lot of these sports experts, sports writers have voted that as the single greatest sporting event or athletic achievement. I think so, yeah? They put it number one, certainly top five. In the history of our country, we have a lot of things that we’ve done to break records. We’re going to go over them, but we’ve broken a lot of records now, but I want to thank that great team for being with us. Very inspirational. This is a big day. The anniversary. Thank you fellas. Thank you.

  (16:04)
In my state of the union address, I proudly declare that we are in the midst of the great American comeback and we’re just getting started.

  (16:18)
After three years of ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades. By the way, I think they’re starting another one. Did you see that? I see these phoneys. These are the do nothing Democrats. They said today that Putin wants to be sure that Trump gets elected. Here we go again. Here we go again. Did you see it? A story. Aren’t people bored? Now, does that include because a couple of weeks ago, crooked Hillary said Chelsea Gabbard, right. Tulsi Gabbard and right?

Crowd: (16:54)
She was a Russian agent.

  (16:56)
She was a Russian agent. Tulsi and also Stein from Jill Stein. I don’t know Jill Stein. I never met the woman. She is a Green Party candidate or was they said she’s an agent of Russia. I don’t know her and I don’t know Tulsi. The only thing I know about both of them is they’re not agent. They are not agents of Russia. These people are sick. That’s pencil neck, pencil neck again. Little pencil. No, I just see it again. I was told that was happening. I was told a week ago. They said they’re trying to start a rumor. It’s disinformation. That’s the only thing they’re good at. They’re not good at anything else. They get nothing done. Do nothing Democrats. That Putin wants to make sure get elected. Listen to this. So doesn’t he want to see who the Democrat’s going to be? Wouldn’t you rather have, let’s say Bernie? Wouldn’t he rather that Bernie who honeymooned in Moscow? Wouldn’t that be?

  (18:04)
These people are crazy. That’s all they think about. They don’t think about the country. They don’t think about jobs. They don’t think about lowering your drug costs. Infrastructure. These people are crazy. Trust me, I like what we’re doing and I love this country. I love this country.

  (18:30)
Now, and I campaigned on it, at the same time we want to get along with Russia, we want to get along with China, we want to get along with all these countries. Who the hell needs to have conflict? But these people are sick, they are sick people. The radical left’s attempts to poison our democracy and overturn the last election have totally ended in a big fat failure.

  (18:55)
And by the way, you saw today, single best day I’ve ever had is the polls and any poll that the fake news gives you, because the real numbers are higher, but any poll they give you as a fake. But Wisconsin, the great state of Wisconsin, I was leading by many, many, many points against every one of these characters. Can you believe it? We got a new one. Mini Mike. How did he do in the debate the other day? Mini Mike. Here’s a box Mike. Here Mike. Mini Mike. He was a beauty.

  (19:38)
What happened huh? He couldn’t breathe. What happened? Mike would like to know how about that Pocahontas screaming at him. She forgot. She forgot that she lied about her own heritage. She said she was an Indian because she had high cheekbones. That was the only thing. Remember what I said, I have more Indian blood in me than she has and I have none. Right? I have none. To the best of my knowledge, wouldn’t mind having some, but I happen to have none. And she choked and she went out and got a report done. One, 1 thousandth and 24 you know what that means? That means probably I do have more. Now why did he bring that up when she was screaming at him? Why? Because he was gasping for breath. I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe. She’s hitting me too hard. Pocahontas. Well, she won that debate cause Mike could not respond.

Crowd: (20:59)
[inaudible 00:00:20:55].

  (21:05)
That’s what they all said. They all said that. That’s funny. I won, they’re all shouting. It’s not me that’s saying it. Fake news. You fake news people. No, they all said it though. Who won the debate? Trump. You know what? The way I look at it, when fake news CNN oops, there goes the camera off. Red light just went off. See, I can tell every one of them. I know them by heart. I know the operators. I know the camera men. They’re okay. They’re all on our side by the way. They’re screamed at. Get that camera off. I don’t want to do that. Get that camera off, or it’s going to be you job. All right, I’m sorry. Precedent.

  (21:58)
But how bout MSDNC? They’re worse than CNN. And they’re owned by people that really are bad. I think they’re very bad for our country. The owners of Comcast, rotten company, bad for our country, very bad. They try, they have all these PR things to try and keep their image nice and clean. What they do on television is so disgusting. I think in the old days you had to have licenses for this stuff, right? They can say whatever they want to say. Let’s see what happens over the next period of time. Bunch of dishonest people. Comcast, terrible company. Terrible people running that company. And you know what, I had Celebrity Apprentice, I had the Apprentice on for 14 seasons, 14 seasons, and they used to come to my office and they would kiss my ass. Please sign. Please. Please sign.

  (23:05)
It’s an interesting story. They came and we signed, you know who signed me, Jeff Zucker. It’s one of the only things he’s done good in broadcasting, but I signed and NBC, as you know, is owned by Comcast, but I signed and they figured the show would be a total failure. So they only signed me for one season. You know I was going to have it. It was go on and then the show goes, started at ten went to eight, went to seven, went to five, went to four, went to two. It went to one. I had the number one show in all of television. Number one. It was a phenomenal and the final episode, remember that? With the, you remember that? Do you remember the final? We had, I don’t know, it was one of the biggest shows of the year. It was a tremendous success there.

  (23:58)
But here I was, I signed with NBC and they didn’t even want to waste the ink on an option. Usually they have an option for not, you know, just like they didn’t do it. You stupid people. So they paid me very little for the first season I think $25,000 a show, which is considered not good. That’s okay. It was fun. I didn’t know it was going to be success, you know? Hey, just like this was successful. It’s a recent.

  (24:27)
Because when I left and Arnold Schwarzenegger and I like Arnold said some very nice things, so I’m not, but the show did not exactly succeed when I left, but I had it on and they wanted me to sign for more and I said, no, I’m going to run for president but I’ll never forget.

  (24:46)
I looked at, I didn’t know anything about this business and I had an agent, wonderful guy from William Morris, and he said, sir, I don’t want you to sign. No business show has ever done well on network television. Well, it’s not business, it’s entertainment, celebrity. Sir, I don’t want you to sign. Sir, don’t sign. I said, yeah, okay. But I have a problem. I shook the hand of somebody I have to.

  (25:11)
And Mark Burnett was great. He was my guy and but we shook hands. So I have to, but I agreed, you know, I didn’t know that no business or no business type show had ever succeeded on a network television. So he said, I don’t want you to sign sir, break it. I said, I can’t break it. Can’t break it. Anyway, so the show I said started at ten, went to nine, went to became, it was the number one show all of a sudden, and the agent called me up and he said, sir, I remember it was six in the morning. I was in bed. He said, sir, the show just went to number one. I’d love to see you because I think I’m entitled to more money. I said, you didn’t want me to do the show. Well, not really. I mean, I was okay. He said, I’d really like more money. I said, Jim, I like you very much, Jim, you’re fired. Get out.

  (26:07)
Anyway, I had 14 great seasons over about 11 years because it was so successful, they kept… They would have run it. Remember when they did the three hours, the whole night was the Apprentice. I said, wait a minute. Gone With the Wind, to mention the movie a second time, Gone With the Wind is shorter. They had the Apprentice on for three hours. I said even I think it’s too long. You can’t put it up for three. You got leave a little bit like I want to come back next week.

  (26:33)
But they had it on for three weeks. We did fantastically with it. Comcast did great. NBC did great. They wanted me to sign for another three years. I said, no, I’m going to for president. And that was actually the time when I knew I was going to run. Because you know how they were paying a lot of money and whether you’re rich or not, it’s still a lot of money. I don’t care how rich you are. It’s a lot. Millions and millions of dollars. And I said no, I’m going to run for president. And I did that. But from the day I ran, they went from being, you know one…

  (27:03)
But from the day I ran, they went from being wonderful, they were nice. They were nice. I guess if I didn’t do well with the show they wouldn’t have been nice because they weren’t nice to other people that failed. People that didn’t have good ratings, that business is a very simple business. If you have good ratings, you can treat them like garbage. If you have bad ratings, you can say, “Sir, I really respect you so much.”

  (27:25)
Get out of here. Get him out of my yard. They’re very ruthless people. But Comcast is a rotten company. They forgot totally. And they are worse than CNN. I will tell you that right now. Comcast is worse than CNN. We should call it Comcast, because that’s their beautiful maiden name, Comcast. They’re worse than CNN.

  (27:49)
I’ll, tell you something about CNN. Jake Tapper, today he put out… Now I know you don’t like him. I know. Who likes him? Who the hell can like him? I think his wife likes him. Actually. I really believe she does. But let me just tell you, he put out a couple of social media posts today, because I never call it tweet, I call it social media because it’s much bigger than tweet.

  (28:10)
What we have, Dan Scavino. The great Dan Scavino. We have won five sites. We’re number one on Twitter, we’re number one on Facebook, and the whole world. The whole world. So it’s powerful. But Jake Tapper put out some things, basically saying, I believe it, that’s the way I read it, that the new Russian thing that started yesterday, that Putin wants to be sure that Trump, which give me a break. Give me a break. But Jake Tapper said it ain’t so, and if he did say that because they were a little complex, they can turn them around, or when Zucker sees him and said, “Why did you put that? I want that deleted and I want you to do a different one.” But he did say that. So I respect that because it’s another hoax story. But we’re standing up for the defense of our constitution, for our freedom, and democracy itself. You know that.

  (29:03)
[inaudible 00:29:03] I got to get that. Hey, Bobby? Bobby? See that guy? I love that shirt. Bobby, I don’t know. He looks like a nice guy. Can you please walk him up, even if you have about five. Come here, come here. Come here. Come here. You got to see this shirt. You got to see this shirt. I love it.

  (29:29)
I’ve got to order me one that I can ride around. Come on. Come on up here. He looks safe. He doesn’t look like he’s going to start a fist fight. He’s a good fan, I guess. You got to see this shirt. I love it. Is there any place that’s more fun than a Trump rally? Right?

  (29:52)
How many rallies have you been to?

Crowd: (29:53)
[inaudible 00:29:55].

  (30:01)
80? 80? 80. He said 80 rallies. Come up here. Come on. Come on. Come on. Look at these two guys. These guys are serious. These are serious fans, right? Are you with him? Are you with him? Are you with him? You’re with him?

Speaker 2: (30:19)
Come on up, baby.

  (30:19)
Come on. Come up here. Man.

Crowd: (30:20)
Hello again, sir. We met yesterday at your rally [inaudible 00:03:34].

Speaker 3: (30:34)
I’ve been to two rallies in one week, so I’m just getting started. I’m just getting started.

Crowd: (30:34)
Welcome. [inaudible 00:30:40].

  (30:40)
And look at this guy Come on.

Speaker 4: (30:52)
God bless you. Thank you, president. [inaudible 00:30:53] Thank you for saving America.

  (30:52)
Thank you, fellas.

Speaker 2: (30:56)
We love you. You saved us. You saved us, thank you.

Crowd: (30:58)
Thank you, president Trump, for saving America. [inaudible 00:31:01]

  (31:13)
Wow. I just said, “How long have you two been together?” I figured they’d say, “We’re married.” He met her at the rally in Colorado. Can you believe this? Can you believe it? Man, did he get lucky. They both got lucky, right? They both got lucky. Well, that’s cool. No, I just see there’s so much stuff out here. It’s genius, actually. While the extreme left has been wasting America’s time with viral hoaxes, we’ve been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border, lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. As you heard, we added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone. Way above anticipated schedule. And that makes 7 million new jobs since the election. The number was supposed to be under 2 million and we added 7 million. And remember, if I give you wrong numbers, the fake news is going to have headlines.

  (32:28)
“Trump gave you wrong…” I mean, it’s very tough. I’ve got to be very careful. Even if I give you wrong in the wrong way, they’ll say it was wrong. I said, “Yeah, but it was wrong in the low way.” No, that’s no good either. Got to be very precise with these characters. The Democrats don’t have to be, but we have to be. We’ve destroyed he ISIS territorial caliphate 100%, we killed the founder and leader of ISIS. Al Baghdadi is dead. Al Baghdadi is dead. 17 years. They looked for him. 17 years.

  (33:17)
Al-Baghdadi. One of the first things I did when I came in. He’s the founder of ISIS and when I came in three years ago, ISIS was all over the place. And I said, “You got to knock it out.” We knocked it out of Syria, and, Iraq and other places. We really knocked at 100%.

  (33:35)
Remember I wanted to leave. I said, “All right.” We were at 96%, then 98, then 99%. I said, “Let some of these other countries do it.” Wouldn’t you say, right? So what happened is I wanted to leave and they said, “No, no, no, we want 100%.” So we wait and stayed. We got 100%, then we moved them all out of Syria, except we did keep the oil. You noticed that, right? We kept the oil. Sorry. They said, “He left soldiers in Syria.” Yeah, I did to keep the oil, if you don’t mind. Which is what we should have done in Iraq too, by the way.

  (34:07)
I would have done that. I’m making a lot of money with all that oil. But you remember that whole thing, that whole… I said, “You got to find Al Baghdadi.” I’ve been saying that actually for two years. I had a lot of other things to do the first year, like fight off the Democrats. These crazy Democrats with their hoaxes. Think of it.

  (34:30)
If they use their genius, because they are genius at that stuff, right? They’re really good. They can take nothing. They can take a perfect phone call made to the Ukrainian president who said very specifically there was no pressure. He doesn’t even know what’s going on and they can take this perfect call. Thank goodness I had a transcriber. Do you agree with it? Because the fake whistleblower said that the call was totally different than what the call was.

  (34:59)
So when I released the call, when I released the transcripts, they died. They said, “Oh we got a problem.” They never thought I was going to do it, but I had no choice. I had to because I had to show they’re liars. But think of it, they can take something like that, a perfect phone call, or they’ll take just out of thin air they can make something up.

  (35:19)
And they ended up today, front page, New York Times. They used to call it the eighth column. That’s the big column on the right. I don’t know. The papers become so small. I don’t know if they have an eighth column anymore. They used to have the eighth column, was a big deal, right? That was the big deal. Today it’s too narrow. Think they’re probably… After I’m gone, they won’t have any columns. That’s why eventually they’re going to support me.

  (35:42)
Eventually, the Times and the Washington post, which will be dead as a doornail after I leave, and the CNN, it’ll be an obsolete business, the cable business. MSDNC will be out of business. You know, cable was supposed to be obsolete and now they’re doing the highest numbers they’ve ever done. If an airplane goes down with 700 people, they don’t cover it. If it’s not Trump related, they don’t cover it. It’s got to be Trump or Trump related. So if a plane goes down and it’s total devastation, if the ship goes down, if the Titanic-

Speaker 5: (36:18)
Titanic.

  (36:20)
If the Titanic equivalent went down, they wouldn’t cover it unless I was on the sucker. It’s true. They wouldn’t cover it. The fake news would not cover the equivalent of the Titanic.

Speaker 5: (36:33)
Titanic.

  (36:35)
But you know what they’re going to do before the election? They’re going to say, “We want to just say something. We’re going to endorse the president.” You know why? Because they’ll be out of business. Can you imagine if they had to cover mini Mike? Who I don’t think, I think he’s gone, but you know what? He’ll spend another 500 million. Don’t forget I spent 70 and I won, of my money. In other words, they said, and this was in the New York Times, I said the other night in Colorado.

  (37:04)
I spent 70, mini Mike so far has spent almost $500 million dollars in order to get embarrassed by Pocahontas. Pocahontas. And she’s mean, isn’t she? Did you see that? Do you see the anger on her face? That nervous energy. She’s jumping up and down. She’s a mess. But no, no, she’s mean. Right? Right? That face is just… “You want to get him?” She said, “I got him. I want to see those agreements.” “I,” “You open up those agreements.” This poor guy probably signed a hundred of them and each one’s a disaster. He said, “I don’t want to open those agreements. Nobody told me this was going to happen.”

  (37:53)
Said, “Actually, sir.” “Nobody told me. Get me out of here.” After the debate, he went backstage, fired a lot of people. He said, “How the hell did you get me into this thing?” But Pocahontas was really mean, but she’s going to be easy. I hope it’s her. It’s not going to be her.

  (38:19)
She made a little comeback the other night because she took mini Mike to the cleaners. But it’s not going to be here. It can’t be [inaudible 00:11:28]. Can’t be, I don’t think. Alfred E. Neuman, ladies and gentlemen, introducing president Alfred E. Neuman. Nobody knows because you’re all too young. Nobody knows who Alfred… it’s Mad Magazine.

  (38:46)
They all said… No. Howdy Doody. See nobody knows who Alfred E. Neuman is. Only the real aficionados. They’re the ones and they love it. But that’s only 15% of the crowd, right? Am I right? Better than Howdy Doody. Howdy Doody.

  (39:02)
But he’s got to learn. He’s got to worry about his own city. It’s going to hell, so he’s got to worry. Because that city’s got a lot of problems. I don’t get the whole thing, but he’s not a bad debater, I will say. He’s probably the best up there. And Bernie is too emotional. He’s screaming, going crazy. And Biden is angry. Biden is angry. Everything’s anger. [inaudible 00:39:26] And that’s what happens when you can’t get the words out. No it does.

  (39:35)
That’s what happens, right? When you can’t get the words out, you get angry. You get angry because you can’t get the words. That might happen to me someday. Can you imagine if that happened to me? Man, would I be a bad guy. I’d be the meanest man in history. No, but Biden is very angry.

  (39:52)
He gets angrier, and angrier, and angrier. He’s changed. And then you have the Tom. Yeah. He said Tom Steyer. Tom said, ” Mister impeachment.” How did that work out, Tom? Thank you very much for the great poll numbers between him and nervous dancing.

  (40:09)
How did that work out? This schmuck spends $250 million dollars, he ends up with one third of a percent in Iowa. But maybe that could be Rick, because they still don’t have any idea what he got. Maybe he won Iowa, they took it away from him. No, but he was substantially below it. All I know, it said 1% and an arrow left.

  (40:31)
So he spends 250 million, Tom Steyer. Never heard of this guy. Who is he? Where did he get his money? Who is he? He was in the coal business, did you know that? This guy, this phony is a big environmentalist. He made his money, a lot of it, in the coal business. Nobody knows that, but he’s a fake.

  (40:48)
Remember when he walked up to Bernie the other day. “Hi Bernie. Hi.” Oh, and he was having a fight with Pocahontas, right? Is this the greatest? Mark Burnett said, “This is the greatest reality show in history.” He said, “You can take The Apprentice, and you can take Survivor, and you can take every other reality show ever made, multiply it times 10,000, and you still don’t have what we have. And even the CAS.” He did say this. You got the perfect president. You got the perfect first lady. How about the first lady? You got the perfect kids. The kids, though. Those beautiful kids. My beautiful kids. They had such a great life, before I did this. Sorry, kids. Sorry. My beautiful Ivanka. She had such a great life. She Had a company that was selling shoes and everything you could sell. She’d just put her name on it and she said, “Daddy, does it matter? I want to come to Washington and help people get jobs.”

  (42:02)
Right? Ain’t that true? And she left the company. And when you leave a company, all of a sudden it doesn’t do as well. I wouldn’t say that I exactly helped talking about the wall and other things, but she left the company, came to Washington and she said 500,000 jobs. That was her goal. And she did that in the first month. She actually did.

  (42:29)
She’s gotten these great companies like Walmart, and many others, Exxon, she’s gotten them to take millions of people. She’s now over 15 million jobs where they train people and bring them into the companies. It’s incredible. 15 million. And she’s smart. She got it figured out, but most people can’t, but she does. But all they do is give them heat. They work so hard. And could you imagine you take Biden’s son. Can you imagine?

  (43:10)
I deal with all these big companies and these great, great countries. I think I could get my sons 25 board chips for millions of dollars a piece. My kids would be [inaudible 00:43:21]. But you know what? We don’t do any of that stuff. We don’t do that stuff. We don’t do it. The kid got $3 million dollars, 83,000 a month and he didn’t have a job until his father became vice president. And speaking of vice presidents and speaking also of reality television, because it’s the greatest show of all time, right? Look at us. Look.

  (43:48)
We told you, what, last night? Little change here, folks. We’re going to move it up from eight o’clock in the evening until 12 o’clock in the afternoon. Little change. Just a minor change. Because I have to get back to Washington to work. I feel guilty. This is too much fun. But speaking to vice presidents and speaking of perfect vice presidents, if you become president, the first thing you have to do is choose a really horrible, horrible vice president. So if the idiots ever want to impeach you, they have to say, I can’t impeach him. Look who we have. I have the perfect vice president. I have the greatest in the world. I have the greatest vice president.

  (44:39)
I don’t know. I got the great ones. I said, “I can’t do that.” I picked a great guy. He’s done a fantastic job. He’s been a great vice president. But it is true. I could have picked, I’ll give you names, but don’t want to do that because I don’t want to hurt anyone’s feelings. But there are plenty of them out there.

  (44:51)
They’re mostly out there and I don’t want to do that. But Mike Pence has been great. But tell me, is it perfect casting the whole thing? And this isn’t about casting, this is about real life. But when Mark Burnett said to me the other day, he said, “The greatest reality show of all times, times of million.” That’s exactly except for one thing, we work our asses off and we are doing things like nobody has ever done before.

  (45:19)
Right? Right? So, we took out Al Baghdadi and then we just took out two weeks ago the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani of Iran, ending his evil reign of terror forever. He’s the father of the roadside bomb. When you see our beautiful people walking around with no legs, they’re walking, and trying to walk so hard, and they’re really in rough shape.

  (46:01)
Incredible the job that doctors do at Walter Reed and some of these hospitals. And they get them to a point where sometimes they really can, they walk around, but it’s hard. And they lose legs, and they lose arms. That was [inaudible 00:46:14] he’s the father of the… he loved the roadside bomb. He thought it was a great thing. Where is he now?

  (46:24)
Soleimani. And I’ll tell you what, you know who’s happy about it? The people of Iran are happy and even the leaders of Iran, because the leaders of Iran were afraid of him. Okay? And the fact is, America is respected again. We’re winning. We’re winning all over. We’re winning in Washington that Democrats keep losing their minds. That is why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement.

  (46:57)
It’s not even a party, it’s a movement. They’re joining the Republican party. It’s true. We have a lot of… Look at the energy in this room. They’re all [inaudible 00:47:10]. They’re all [inaudible 00:47:13]. Look, we’re a unified party. The Republican party has never been unified like it is today.

  (47:22)
I’ll show you. I could say, “We’re going to go over to the Hill. No, we’re going to go over to someplace and we’re going to do a rally at eight o’clock tonight.” We’d have tens of thousands of people there. There’s never been this. Ronald Reagan was great. I thought he was a great guy, great president, didn’t like his policy on trade. That’s okay. Trade.

  (47:42)
But if he came to Las Vegas, you know they’d have a ballroom, and they’d have 500, maybe a thousand people. What we’re doing… And this isn’t even, I must say this, I don’t want to tell you this, this is not election season. Because we’re nine months away. Election season is when you’re two months away. We’re not even in election season and we have more enthusiasm now. Believe it or not, then we had even before the election in 2016. It’s true. It’s too early. It’s too early. It’s true. We have a great gentleman and a woman with us, a friend of mine, mister and misses Sheldon Adelson, right over here. Great, great person. Two great people. He’s got so much money, he doesn’t know what the hell to do with it. He owns the Sands Hotel. That’s like one of the smaller businesses.

  (49:05)
Sheldon, that’s like your small business, right? He is a great guy. She’s an incredible, she’s a doctor, and she studies addiction, and drugs, drug addiction, all sorts of addictions. And she knows more about that subject, I think, than anybody, and she works hard and she doesn’t need it. He does not need the money that she brings in. Okay?

  (49:25)
He also happens on the paper. He owns the paper. You own the paper in town, right? They wanted like a couple of hundred million dollars too much. You said, “Give it to them. It’s peanuts. What the hell difference does it make? We want to thank the Adelsons. They’ve been incredible fans and they love Israel. They love Israel. I just saw him sitting there. I didn’t know they were here. I just see him sitting there. He’s something.

Speaker 6: (49:54)
[inaudible 00:49:56].

  (49:56)
The chairman of the Nevada Republican party, who’s really been great. He’s been with me for a long time and he’s a very committed man. Make America great again. Oh, oh, oh. Let’s do a poll quick. Just quick. I’ll never get rid of MAGA because I’m superstitious. But we just hit an all time high with the stock market. Our military is rebuilt. You just got the greatest tax cuts in history, the greatest rate, regulation cuts, and all this stuff. So, let me ask you this.

  (50:29)
So, “Make America great again,” it sort of doesn’t work quite as well. So now we have keep America great and we have the new hat. It’s higher, stiff. It’s like a billboard, right? I call it the billboard. It’s a billboard. So let’s go just that. Because I am very surprised by it. We’re going to keep them both, but I just curious if we did go to one, “Make America great again?” ” Keep America great?”

  (51:03)
I can’t. I would have said that’s impossible. “Make America great again,” is the greatest phrase. A lot of people, again, fake news, I think will agree to it. It’s the greatest phrase ever used in politics. It’s the greatest phrase. Now, who has the greatest phrase ever used in the history of politics and say, “Oh, let’s go with a new phrase.” Right?

  (51:40)
But we’re going to keep it. So we have to keep MAGA. But now we have CAG, now we have CAG. So we have a both. I just don’t have the courage to get rid of the one. It would be too disrespectful. Too disrespectful. But Michael McDonald, I want to thank you and the members of the Nevada Republican central committee. You’re all here. They’re great people. And the man came here. He loves us. He’s been with us. Rick Harrison of the world famous gold and silver pawn shop. Rick Harrison.

  (52:22)
You better win, Michael. Otherwise, that’s the last time I’m introducing you like that. I hear we’re up. I hear we’re doing nicely. I hear we’re doing great. And by the way, the union, I have a lot of respect for that union. Last time, I had a strike in my building during the election. It’s the only reason we would have won this state. Brilliantly to save three cents. I could have settled the strike before the election. I wanted to save $2 total.

  (52:49)
That was a brilliant move. And then we had some guy running. A guy named [inaudible 00:25:55]. And he wasn’t too good. He didn’t do too good. But we almost won this state despite… I had a big strike. Had thousands and thousands of union guys. They had it, look, they wanted, wanted to show us. But I think that the unions are really with us and the unions have been with us. They’re Teamsters, so many of the unions.

  (53:16)
Because I’m for the working man and woman, whether you’re union or non-union. Some States are all union, some states are no union. But we get them all. And I think we’re going to have tremendous success. And a lot of the Democrats are going to ruin the healthcare programs that these unions have. The unions have worked hard on healthcare and they’re going to ruin them.

  (53:38)
They’re going to take away… Well, we’re going to… you can lose 180 million people off of great private healthcare. So we’ll see what happens. But a lot of the Democrats want to do that. They think it’s wonderful. But together we’re building the world’s most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society. That’s true. Since my election, over 125-

  (54:02)
That’s true. Since my election, over 125,000 new jobs have been created right here in Nevada, including over 40,000 new Nevada manufacturing and construction jobs. A 30% increase. The national unemployment rate is the lowest in over half a century, and soon we’re going to have that be a historic number like so many of the others. The average unemployment rate for my administration, this is the coolest of them all, is the lowest for any United States president in recorded history. That’s pretty good. When I’m in a debate, they’re saying, “we’re going to do this.” I say, “listen, we have the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country.” African American unemployment, Hispanic American. Hispanic, we got a lot of Hispanic. I love Hispanic. Who in this audience is Hispanic? Yeah, we’re doing great. Well, we should be doing great. You have the lowest unemployment rates ever recorded. Asian Americans, likewise the lowest ever recorded. The unemployment rate for women reached the lowest rate in 71 years. African American youth unemployment has reached an all time historic low. People I love, people I might’ve helped more than anybody because of choice and accountability. The veteran’s unemployment rate drop to the lowest record. Lowest in history.

  (56:02)
The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached an all time historic low and you got to remember they’re back there checking every word. They’re going,” oh, my god. He’s right.” I can’t say it because I got all these maniacs back there. They’re trying to find… “He put the comma in the wrong place. He didn’t make that word plural, therefore he lied.” Now I’ve got to be very accurate because all these numbers, they check them out. “They’re in there, checking them out. Check on the African American unemployment, please.” Please tell me it’s not historic. These people are among the most dishonest human beings on earth. Not all of them. Workers without a high school diploma. We have millions of people that didn’t go through high school. They left. They had problems, good problems, bad problems, families where they don’t have the money. They didn’t get a high school diploma. They’ve achieved the lowest unemployment rate ever recorded in the history of the United States.

  (57:14)
Those are important groups of people. Half a million more Hispanic Americans now own a home. Now, Hispanic have done so good. And by the way, you know who understands the border, because we are building that wall like crazy. Remember, they also said, “if you build the wall you’ll lose the Hispanic vote.” I said, “I got to do what’s right. You know who understands the border better than anybody? You know who understands crime at the border better than anybody? The Hispanics understand it and they don’t want to be working and have people come and take their job. Have people come in where they can’t pay for their house, have people come in who are very bad people.” You have some very bad people. You have murderers and rapists, and we have set all sorts of records at the border, but we’re up to 122 miles of wall, and it is true. The people that understand it the best are Hispanic. So, thank you. We got to make our country safe. We’ve lifted 10 million people off of welfare. Median household income is now the highest ever recorded in our country. Think of that. I say it all the time. President Bush, eight years, $450. President Barack Hussein Obama, eight years, $ 975. President Donald John Trump, three years. It’s actually less when they did the numbers. Three years, including the big tax cuts that we got you and the regulation cuts. Three years.

  (59:22)
So, you had 450, 975, that’s eight and eight. Now we’re down to three years, a little less, three years, $ 10,000 per family a year. 10,000 a year. Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is restoring American liberty and ending the tyranny of federal bureaucrats. I deal with them. They’re not good. It’s called the swamp. We’ve ended the war on American energy, lowering utility bills, reducing prices at the pump, reducing your prices. Part of that number is all of the money that we save at the pump and on electric. I also recently took action on an issue Nevada has been dealing with for over 30 years. Yucca mountain. You know Yucca mountain? My budget stops funding for the licensing of waste storage at Yucca mountain, so that we can focus on positive solutions and for much better reasons and alternatives. Why should you have nuclear waste in your backyard? I won’t say which countries, but you know what other countries do? I will not say which ones.

  (01:00:49)
They put it on a ship. They float it out into the middle of the ocean. They find a nice deep spot and they dump it. That’s the end of it. But we would never do that for environmental reasons. We are reversing decades so Yucca mountain… You’re okay, please. Okay. Just relax. Sheldon, do you have somebody at your newspaper back there who can write. Yucca mountain, please. He’ll call up, “Yucca mountain is okay.” That’s the end of that. So Yucca mountain, you’re in great shape. Maybe they can finally report it properly, but we’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. For years, Washington politicians took money from lobbyists, global corporations and corrupt special interest to ship our jobs and factories and all of this stuff and all of this wealth. They stole our wealth. They shipped it overseas and to other countries. America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entrance into the WTO, the world trade organization. Probably an even worse deal for us than NAFTA, if that’s possible, but under my administration, the great betrayal of America is over. America is no longer for sale. Last month we ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new U.S., Mexico, Canada agreement USMCA. See, we played the song YMCA because that’s the only way you’ll remember. Just think of the song YMCA. Think of the song and you’ll remember that USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Nevada. I also took the strongest ever action to confront China’s massive theft of America jobs. Our strategy worked. Last month, we signed a ground breaking trade agreement. Probably the biggest agreement of any kind ever signed with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property and boost American exports by a lot. China will be buying $250 billion worth of goods from us now and 50 billion from our farmers. My guys wanted 16, I said, “make it 50.” My guys wanted 16, they got China up to 20. I said, “Nope. Got to make it 50,” and then I said to China, “you got a billion and a half people. What difference does it make?” They said, “you’re right.” 50 billion, I don’t think our farmers can produce that much, but we’re going to soon find out. They’re going to buy very large tractors. After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. we are finally putting America first.

  (01:04:26)
Or no issue of Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than the issue of immigration. Before I came into office, the far left’s policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country, poisoning our children, including right here in a very big way. The great state of Nevada. Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the wellbeing of American citizens. You know that, you’ve been complaining about it for a long time. It’s one of the reasons you voted for Trump. They want to let anyone from around the world simply walk across the border and then they want to give them a lifetime of free welfare, of healthcare, of lots of other things, including education. All paid for by the taxpayers of the United States. Illegal immigration costs Nevada taxpayers, think of it, more than $1.6 billion every year, over $1,500 per household. For the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild every city, all of these distressed areas in the United States, throughout our country. The money spend, it’s not even thinkable and don’t forget when we say come, like in California the clown, he says, “come, we’ll give you free healthcare.” People that weren’t even thinking about coming. That’s why we have caravans of people that we’re turning back. Mexico’s been great. By the way, they gave us 27,000 soldiers on our border.

  (01:06:16)
But when a governor, nice guy actually, he’s a nice guy. We just got to explain the facts of life. He’s a nice guy. Oh doctor, please. Doctor in the house, please. Medical, please. A doctor. Thank you. Take your time. We’ve got plenty of time. Yeah, take your time please. A lot of these people have been here for three days. It’s a lot. Those front row people are tough. Take your time, doc. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, doctor. That’s true. They get here so… They stand and sit and sometimes days early. In Colorado, they’re there three, four days early. It’s tough. And we work it and make sure that you have everything you want. Number one, we cover the facts and number two, we want to have a good time because we have to have a good time. But things like that happen a lot because after two, three days, it’s not easy and these are strong people. I’m not going to fight any of them, okay?

  (01:10:05)
Now, amazing people. Thank you very much. Under my administration, we’re finally taking care of our own citizens first, including millions of illegal immigrants who follow our laws, pay their taxes, lift up our society, and are entitled to a government that protects their families and protects their communities. Every day, Democrats’ open border policies are harming and killing innocent people. You know what’s happening, you know what’s going on. In this region alone last year, ICE officers, and they’re patriots. They’re strong, tough patriots. If we didn’t have them. They remove thousands and thousands of MS13 gang members a year and plenty of others. Who else is going to do it? ICE officers arrested over 5, 000 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses, including robbery, rape, and even murder. Many murders. In Western Nevada, an illegal alien was charged with robbing and brutally executing four victims last year. Right here in Las Vegas, three MS13 gang members abducted a man, tied him up with his shoelaces, shot him repeatedly, and hacked him to death with a machete. You know exactly what I’m talking about. It’s right here in your place, in Las Vegas, right here. Tied up and hacked him to death. Yet left wing politicians oppose all detention of illegal aliens, even convicted criminals and murderers, and they support deadly sanctuary cities. I say this all the time and I just… How the hell, where are they coming from? I don’t get it right. Seriously, I don’t get it. Sanctuary cities imperil American lives by releasing dangerous criminal aliens directly into your communities. If you want to shut down sanctuary cities, if you want to protect your family and your loved ones, you must vote Republican in 2020. And you have some great ones here, Michael. Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings eight straight months in a row. And as the wall gets longer, it gets easier and easier. Remember when the Democrats were saying, “you don’t need a wall.” Two things that never change, right? All these computers, they said, “use drones.” Oh great, we’ll fly over with drones. Watch the people pour in by the thousands. That’s great. Use drones. Before I came along, they all wanted a wall. They just didn’t know how to build it. They had no clue. They had the money, they actually gave the money back, but they had no clue. But as soon as I came in and I said, “Wall,” they went against and I made a terrible mistake.

  (01:13:22)
They always say I never admit mistakes. I do, but I’ll admit a mistake now. I should have said, we will never, ever under any circumstances build a wall. They would have given me so much money for a wall, you have no idea. They would’ve forced me to build it. I made a terrible mistake, right? Terrible mistake. If it ever happens again, which it won’t. This wall is one of a kind. They will say, “we will not build a wall,” and they’ll say, “we demand that you build a wall,” and it would have been so easy. Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring and we have ended catch and release. A horrible [inaudible 00:01:14:08].

  (01:14:06)
We catch them. You know the story. They come over, could be a killer, murderer, rapist. They come over. We can’t do anything. We have to be politically correct. We catch them. We then say, “what’s your address?” They don’t know. They don’t even know their country in many cases. Where do you come from? We don’t know and they mean it, but some are very serious criminals. So, we catch them, we take whatever they can take, which is nothing, and then we had to release them in our country. We can’t bring them back. And then we have a system of judges, thousands of judges all over the place. You got to be like Perry Mason and every illegal that comes in, they have the lawyers. The lawyers meet them, they get paid fees, but we’re breaking the system. No more catch and release, you think that was easy? And the big thing is that 30 foot… And this wall is built exactly to the specifications of border patrol. Totally. And border patrol has seized the largest amount, just recently, of deadly narcotics ever recorded. The largest amount. We’ve deported record numbers of gang members. We’ve done more to secure the border than any administration in history. We are, as I said, building the wall faster than ever. Faster and bigger than anyone thought possible. They can’t believe we’re getting it done. We’ll have over 500 miles of wall built sometime next year. 500 miles.

  (01:15:55)
Washington Democrats have never been more extreme than they are right now. 132 congressional Democrats have now signed up for Bernie Sanders takeover of healthcare that would strip 180 million Americans, many of them in this room, of their private coverage. Remember president Obama? Remember, he said, “you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan.” 28 times, he lied, so we should impeach him. We’re going to impeach him. We’ll do a belated impeachment. 28 times, “you can keep your doctor,” right? Remember, you could keep your doctor. Unfortunately, when they found out you can’t keep your doctor, he said, “I was just kidding.” Now, we should impeach him. We’ll do a belated impeachment. Fake news, you have it. See, you have to be very careful when you say impeachment because you know what they do? They go back and they write. President Trump said that Obama should be impeached, but he’s not in office and so therefore they can’t impeach. He doesn’t know what he’s talking about because he’s not in office, so therefore they can’t. So, you have to be very careful. That’s why I use the word belated impeachment. Belated, meaning I’m just kidding, okay?

  (01:17:20)
They do it all the time. They had it the other day. I said, “bring back Gone With The Wind,” right? I said a little bit up here, but I said the movie the other day in Colorado, I guess. I said, “Huh, South Korean movie won.” They said, “ladies and gentlemen, the winner of the Academy Award is …” A movie made in South Korea, what’s this all about? And I deal with them, they like me. We’re helping them a lot. They’re killing us on trade. They beat us on trade and then they win the Academy Award for a fricking movie.

  (01:17:54)
But we redid that trade deal, but the other day they got me on this one too. I said, “whatever happened to Gone With the Wind, that beautiful movie? Vivian Lee, Clark Gable, right? Whatever happened, bring back Gone With the Wind.” And some of them wrote, “he doesn’t know that that movie was made in 1936.” He says fake news. It is fake news, they’re fakers. But now, anybody sitting there reading this saying, “man, Trump, can’t be that smart. He said bring back Gone With the Wind. That’s an old movie.” Yeah, it’s an old classic. What I say is make great movies, not this computerized garbage. And I was never a fan of Brad Pitt, I will tell you that.

  (01:18:48)
No, I thought he was a stiff. He was a stiff, it’s like a boring guy. All of a sudden he wins the Academy Award, so fitting. Their ratings aren’t so good at the Academy Awards. You know when that stopped? When they started attacking us, their ratings went right down the tubers. I told somebody, the evening newscasts, they’re terrible for conservative people and they’re crooked, they’re absolutely dishonest. I said to one of the big broadcasters, I’m friendly with him. I said, “if you ever did a conservative newscasts, instead of… you got, ABC is terrible. NBC is just absolutely atrocious.” And they do badly. Not a lot of people are watching. They used to, when we had the late, great Walter Cronkite and these legends, right? But ABC is terrible and NBC is terrible and CBS is terrible. They’re all the same. And I said, “your ratings stink. If you would do a newscast that’s conservative, I’d get them a host. I could recommend guys right now, right? I’d get them a host. We’ll call up… Don’t take Sean Hannity away from us. Don’t take our show.

  (01:20:03)
That’s my problem, I don’t want to take away any of our people. You get a Pete Hegseth. You get a Jesse Waters. You get… I could name so many of them, right? And you put them on that broadcast, their ratings would go up five fold but they don’t know that. I don’t know. They’re stupid. Their ratings would go through the roof, but they would rather have a failed broadcast that nobody watches than put on a conservative person and lift the ratings five times. They would rather have a fail… Seven months ago we had a little skit, and they were hoping the market would crash because they would rather lose their money, or big parts of it, and have a really horrible market on the basis that we, not me, we could not be elected on November 3rd. This is how crazy-

  (01:21:03)
… on November 3rd. This is how evil, this is how crazy they are. They’ve gone crazy. I guess you call it Trump derangement syndrome. But if they ever did a conservative broadcast, meaning very fair, very honest When I say that, it’s almost like do a fair broadcast. Just a fair broadcast. That thing would be the hottest show. But they don’t realize it. And if they do, they probably wouldn’t do it anyway because they don’t want to go away from what they’re doing, which is crazy because it is, they’re doing very poorly.

  (01:21:30)
While the social and socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare and your Social Security, they’re putting it at risk, my administration is protecting your Social Security. Remember they said, four years ago in the debates and you had this crazy woman. I mean, I hate to mention her name. I did it you know, yesterday. I threw all the runs, hates it.

  (01:21:59)
She’s a zero. It’s got zero television personality. Aero AB Stoddard, whoever that is. She said, “Donald Trump lost all of his debates.” I won every debate and maybe, I don’t know maybe one somebody, but I won with tremendous numbers. He says, “You always won.” I’m not sure. We try, I’ll tell you that and we’re winning now.

  (01:22:21)
But this crazy woman who’s got zero going, zero. She said, “Donald Trump lost his debates that he won.” You know, she was talking about how badly Benny Mike did. So she said, “Well, Donald Trump.” No, I won every single debate. I won them against crooked Hillary. I won them in the primaries like 15 or 16 debates. And for some reason, you know, sometimes you do say, it’s not a big deal. Nobody watches it. Nobody cares. Nobody even knows who she is. I just made her famous, right?

  (01:22:49)
She’s nothing. She’s nothing. She’s got no talent, got nothing. She’s probably got a little drive. That’s how she keeps getting on television. Other people don’t have her drive. But you know what? I said, “That’s really unfair.” So I took out the polls, Time magazine, Drudge, good guy, Drudge, Drudge. We took out a lot of different things and we put up the Drudge poll, the Time magazine and many others. And some of them had to be down to like at 91% and they didn’t have many people and I can’t really show up because many of those people are now great friends of mine.

  (01:23:18)
Some of them are great Republican senators. I’m not going to show results, but I’m holding it up just quickly glancing. I call it a glancing blow, but we won the debates and I have this fake news person saying, “Donald Trump did very poorly in the debates.” I want every debate easily. I never did it before. Remember my first question? I said, “Rosie O’Donnell.” That was one of my best answers. Rosie O’Donnell who violated the campaign finance laws as badly as anybody I’ve ever seen and nothing happens to her. Right? And yet ‘jevich violate … He made a little mistake and they want to destroy him. So we pardoned him. We pardoned him.

  (01:24:08)
By the way, he made a mistake. Rosie O’Donnell. That was a massive violation of the campaign finance laws but Dinesh, Dinesh, they wanted to put him in jail. I don’t know. I think he might’ve even gone to jail for a period of time for doing something that was really very understandable. Rosie O’Donnell. Five times what she did is incredible. Nothing happens. And then she gets on and says, what a bad guy I am. I’m not a bad guy, but it’s really a disgrace. You know, it’s a disgrace. I’m glad they didn’t do anything with it, frankly because you know what to do for something like that. But you know what? We have two sets of justices in this country. It’s no good. It’s no good. It’s no good. You know the thing we’re working on right now? We’re trying to get fairness for a certain person who’s been treated very unfairly.

  (01:25:04)
A man who had a juror, who was a radical anti-Trump person, and she didn’t say that when she went up there and she became the foreperson of the jury and she did terrible things and said terrible things. And you know how they caught her. When he was convicted and then a statement was made, she started jumping up and down screaming, ” Yes, yes.” And started telling everybody. They said, “Wait a minute. Wasn’t she just a juror?” The woman was totally biased. How do you do this? So I fight. Look, I fight. A lot of times it’s not worth it, but I got to fight for fairness.

  (01:25:44)
I got to fight for fairness. Got to fight for fairness. It’s a very unfair system. I guess it’s called the swamp. When I said drain the swamp, it was a nice phrase. I never liked the phrase. When I was campaigning, somehow the phrase came up, “Sir, I think we have a phrase, drain the swamp.” I said, “I don’t like it. That’s too hokey.” But one day I was in a big arena, 25,000 people packed before the election and I said, “And we will drain the swamp.” The place went crazy. I said, “Wow, you never know. You never know.”

  (01:26:22)
Frank Sinatra said his best song. I won’t tell you which one because I’ll ruin it for you, but his best song is the song that he thought would never make it, the song that he liked the least, but he said that’s the one that was the most successful that the people like you never know. So I said, “Drain the swamp.” And the people went crazy. I said, “Woah.” I said, “Let’s try that again.” And the next time I did it again and again and again. I only didn’t know how disgusting and dirty the swamp is and a lot of the media is a big part of the swamp.

  (01:26:56)
So my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare. We’re defending your right to keep your doctor and your plan. We’re defending that right. You’re going to have that right back. We’re going to cancel that Obamacare if we could win the case and we’re going to give you great healthcare and we’re making healthcare better and much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the last five years before I took office. We’re managing it very well. We got rid of the individual mandate, by far the most unpopular thing where you had to pay a lot of money for the privilege of not having to pay for bad healthcare, right? We got rid of it.

  (01:27:39)
And it was upheld in the Supreme Court, what we did. Whenever we get sued, everything we do, if we move, if we take 10 steps right or left, we get sued and we’re now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive. We’re going to make healthcare a big part of this campaign.

  (01:27:54)
We’re protecting people with preexisting conditions and we always will. That’s why if we are successful, you don’t want the Supreme Court to try and get rid of this, the caucus. It’s a caucus known as Obamacare, but we’re running it much better than they did. Remember when they had, this was the greatest, the $5 billion website, right? 5 billion. It was supposed to cost 5 million. I have a son at home. He’s 13. He’s a genius with computers.

  (01:28:23)
“Hi, dad. What’s up? Dead dad. Get out of here.”

  (01:28:27)
Hey listen. I’m the president of the United States, pal. Don’t talk to your dad. “Dad, Come on dad. Can’t you see I’m playing with my computer?” The guy talks to me and he’s working with his computer. These guys are genius. You know, they grow up with like walking, right? But he’s looking at me. I could have given him their healthcare site. He would have done it for nothing and it would have been better than what they have.

  (01:28:47)
So remember, come on, dad. I’m busy, dad. What do you want? What do you want, dad?

Audience: (01:28:54)
Barron. Barron. Barron. Barron.

  (01:29:04)
Barron, woah. Wow, he’s going to like that. He’s a good boy. He’s a tall boy. I’ll tell you that. Just turned 13. He’s up there. I’m saying, “Hi Barron. How are you doing?” But they’re great with the computers. They spent 5 billion.

  (01:29:26)
Okay. It was going to cost 50. It was going to cost five. It was going to cost 50. Then it was going to .. What was the final number? Five hundreds. The number that they spent, $5 billion. Right? It still doesn’t work. They spent $5 billion. Right? And they spent $500 million on all of the problems it caused and we’ve really straightened it out, but it’s still lousy healthcare, Obamacare. And it’s really not Obamacare anymore because when you get rid of the individual mandate, it’s no longer Obamacare but we’re going to terminate it. We’re going to give you your preexisting a hundred per- otherwise I won’t do it. We’re going to give you brand new preexisting and we’re going to have a great healthcare that’s much less expensive.

Audience: (01:30:12)
[inaudible 01:30:15].

  (01:30:15)
And we’re fighting to stop surprise medical bill and Barron’s is going to be very happy. I signed an executive order imposing price transparency because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very fast. You know, a man that does this very professionally is great, into the healthcare business and you have to be careful when you say it, but you know it was just a very strong statement.

  (01:30:45)
But he said, “Sir, price transparency in hospitals. Where you can bid it out and you can look at the prices. Right now you can’t see. If you go to a hospital, they won’t even tell you how much it’s going to cost. They operate and then they’ll give you a bill and you’ll say, “Oh my god, I had no idea it could be.” They take blood. We have one person, blood $39. Another place, the exact same thing, $2500. Take blood, a blood test. One is $39 one, is $2500. The same test. Maybe the $39 test is better. Who the hell knows? But it’s crazy. Price transparency and he looks at me. He goes, and he’s a real pro. One of the top in the country. He said, “Sir,” and nobody wanted to do it because it’s a little bit controversial and a lot of the drug companies don’t exactly love it. The hospitals don’t love it, but I got to do what’s right for you. The people, I don’t care, I’m not. I got to do it.

Audience: (01:31:37)
[inaudible 01:31:39].

  (01:31:41)
But he looked at me. And this is why I did it. It was one phrase. You know, do you ever do where you’re not going to do something? And then somebody hits you with a perfect phrase. He said, “Sir, price transparency is bigger than healthcare.” I said, “What do you mean by that?” He said, “You will see numbers that far outweigh healthcare, hospitals, doctors.” He said, “You’ll be able to price out everything. You’ll be able to see costs.” He said, “Price transparency.” You know, people you’ve heard about this for 15, 20 years. No president has the guts to do it. Probably means I won’t get campaign contributions from certain people, but I’m not going to get them anyway.

  (01:32:24)
What the hell difference does that make? I don’t want them. I don’t want them. I got to do what’s right. You know, we’re here for a short period of time. Even if it’s a long period, it’s still a short period and we’ve got to do so. Price transparency is a big deal. He said it’s bigger than healthcare. Think of that. Bigger than healthcare. So let’s see what happens. But that’ll kick in. Unfortunately, that kicks in after the election because we’re going through the final stages. We going through a statutory process, unfortunately. So think of it, we’re going to win.

  (01:32:53)
But let’s say the fake news could give me enough phony stories, enough bad stuff that we don’t make it. The new president will get all the credit for price transparency and he won’t even know what the hell it is. And I took the heat. Isn’t that something? But we’re going to win. We got to win for that reason alone.

Audience: (01:33:15)
[inaudible 00:12:17].

  (01:33:18)
We’ve approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the name brand drugs, but a fraction of the cost. And that was another one. Tremendous political pressure. Think of it. You own Bayer aspirin. You own all these name name brand drugs that are making so much money. And then the guy comes along said, “I want to make 20 forms of aspirin.” They’re exactly the same. Exactly. But they don’t have a big name on it. Exactly as good. I don’t say better. I don’t say worse. They’re exactly the same. You know, people still, they want to go out and buy the name. You know? I do. I do. You know? Because it’s just because we’re stupid. No, it’s true. They’re exactly the same. We’re approving so many of the generic drugs, a record number. Nobody’s ever approved so much. The drug companies hate it.

  (01:34:07)
They hate it. Never happened like what we’re doing. We also took down the trial periods from 12 years down to five or six years. They’d have a new drug. The thing was obsolete by the time it got approved. We’ve passed a really spectacular thing that they’ve been trying to get for 40 some odd years. Right to try. So you don’t have to now go if you get, hopefully nobody in this room has those kind of problems. Right to try.

  (01:34:35)
And so now you go and you sign a waiver and you get everything. It’s great. If you’re terminally ill. If you’re very, very sick, you’re not going to make it. And you know why they didn’t do it? They wouldn’t approve it because they didn’t want to be sued. And they said, “No, this could be dangerous.” They said, “The people are terminally ill, they’re going to die.

  (01:34:55)
Let them use the experimental drugs. Don’t wait because they have another four or five years before they can come onto the market.” And it turned out we are having such unbelievable results. And you know what else? Some of those drug companies are now like it. That they fought me like crazy because it’s really showing if it works there, it’s really showing that it works. It’s pretty amazing. Right to try.

  (01:35:15)
I hope you don’t have to use it. We’re combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years and I’ve launched [inaudible 01:35:30] and this is really something, brand new initiatives combating kidney disease and combating Alzheimer’s disease. We’ve made a lot of progress. We’ve made a lot of progress, Sheldon and we’re pursuing new advances in the neonatal research to care for America’s youngest patients, our babies, and breaking all records in so doing.

  (01:35:53)
All of the radical Democrats in the presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the very moment of birth. This is why in my state of the union address, did you like it?

Audience: (01:36:15)
Yeah.

  (01:36:20)
Good. It’s a different kind of address. You know, we can go lots of different ways, right? Presidential, not presidential. I was presidential. Totally. You’d have about three people standing here, but I asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion of babies because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.

Audience: (01:36:41)
Yeah.

  (01:36:44)
The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total obliteration of your very, very important second amendment.

Audience: (01:37:05)
Yeah. Boo.

  (01:37:05)
The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln, which everybody forgot. Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community, and every single walk of life. We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy, and enthusiasm. We are wealthy, right? Are we enthusiastic?

Audience: (01:37:48)
Yeah.

  (01:37:48)
You know how many of these I’ve done in the last four days? People say, “Where the hell do you get your energy?” I say, “Well, the truth is I like what I do and if we weren’t getting the results, I wouldn’t like it.” If we weren’t getting the results. If I didn’t see the results, I wouldn’t like it at all. We’re welcoming Americans of all parties and political persuasions to join our incredible movement to make America great again.

  (01:38:19)
We’re a very big party. We are the party of big ideas for the future. Republicans are fighting for school choice because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.

  (01:38:39)
I passed criminal justice reform to give former prisoners a second chance at life. Was never going to happen. We got it done. This could not have been done by anyone but the Republican party and ourselves. You know the Democrats have tried for years. They couldn’t get it done. We got it done. To uphold the rule of law. We are confirmed and this is something they say. Most important thing you can do, judges. I say most important thing is defense. Second is judges.

  (01:39:08)
A record number of 217 federal judges who will interpret the constitution as written. And we have appointed two great new Supreme court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and we recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. We have invested $2.2 trillion to rebuild the United States military, including more than $130 million for Nellis air force base right here. And we just created the sixth branch of the American armed forces, the Space Force, 72 years, 72 years.

  (01:40:14)
The air force was 72 years ago. We just did a branch. It’s a big deal, isn’t it? Think of it. A branch, the army, the air force. Think of it. We did a branch. For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of Nevada. At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020 November 3rd. November 3rd. Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane and lawful system of immigration. We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that very beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.”

  (01:41:41)
We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic within nine years in America.

  (01:41:56)
And we will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant its flag on Mars. We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.

  (01:42:22)
And that is under siege in case you haven’t noticed. You know, your second amendment is under siege. Just don’t worry. Long as I’m here, they’re not touching it. Above all, we will never stop fighting for this.

  (01:42:38)
So true. But we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America, we support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes and they are heroes. We love them, of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.

  (01:43:22)
And we live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust. From Carson city to Reno to right here in Las Vegas, we stand on the shoulders of red blooded American patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our great, beautiful, lovely freedom, freedom, freedom. Freedom.

  (01:43:59)
Nevada was founded by pioneers and prospectors, miners and cowboys who tamed the frontier, raised the mighty Hoover dam. That’s a beauty. Transformed the barren desert into a shining oasis, lit up the lights of the Las Vegas strip and help to make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth. And we are making it greater than ever before. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Nevada, the best is yet to come together. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Nevada. Thank you, Las Vegas. We love Las Vegas. Thank you everybody. Thank you.



  (02:47)
Wow. Thank you. So where else would you like to be but a Trump rally, right? [inaudible 00:02:58] Hello Colorado. We love Colorado, most beautiful place And I’m thrilled to be back in Colorado Springs. I’ve spent a lot of time here over the years. Beautiful place, beneath the majestic peaks, that’s true, of the Rocky Mountains with thousands of terrific, hardworking, great American patriots.

  (03:26)
With your help this November, we are going to defeat the radical Democrats and we are going to win Colorado in a landslide. And you’re going to help us get Cory Gardner across that line because he’s been with us 100%. there was no waiver. He’s been with us. There was no waiver with Corey. We appreciate it. Thank you Corey. Thank you.

  (04:04)
This month we mark a very special anniversary. 75 years ago this week our brave United States Marines landed on the shores of Iwo Jima and began one of the bloodiest battles of the second world war. It was a rough one. Tonight it’s our great privilege to be joined by three of the heroes of the Battle of Iwo Jima, James Blaine, Donald Whipple and John Thurman. Great, great patriots, very brave people.

  (05:07)
And tonight we also honor the life and extraordinary, really of a very extraordinary American hero, one of the last known survivors of the attack on the USS Arizona at Pearl Harbor on December 7th, 1941. He was in the Oval Office just recently, a little while ago, about a year and a half ago and we just want to pay our respects. Okay, you know it is, Donald Stratton. [inaudible 00:00:05:40]. Just passed away. Sadly he passed away just a few days ago. He was going to be here. Passed away a few days ago, but he was great. I have a beautiful picture of him right outside and we’re going to honor him and his family. Great, great gentlemen. So we were going to have four. We have three and we want to thank you for being here. Thank you all. Thank you.

  (06:10)
Because America is truly a land of heroes, on behalf of the grateful nation I would like to recognize the many veterans of the Vietnam War and the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars who are here this evening, and a lot of them. Great people, great people.

  (06:32)
This is a truly incredible time for America. We have the best economy in our history, the most prosperity of any country. We are doing better than any country in the world, that is not even close. And we’ve rebuilt our military over the last three years. Don’t tell anybody, but we spent two and a half trillion dollars. But when it comes to our military and our safety and our security, we don’t worry about budgets, right? We don’t worry about budgets. We had to rebuild it. It was depleted. It was in bad shape. It was old, it was tired. We have the best people in the world, but they had old equipment. Now we have brand new jets. We have brand new missiles and rockets. We have everything all made in the USA. In my State of the Union Address, I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback. That’s what we’re doing. Our country is stronger today than ever before. After three years of ridiculous witch hunts and scams and partisan Democrat crusades, the radical left’s attempt to poison our democracy and overturn this last election have totally failed. They have been a complete flop and we today have the highest poll numbers we’ve ever had today, just came out.

  (08:40)
And I don’t know if anybody watched last night’s debate, it got very big ratings and you know what? Mini Mike didn’t do well last night. I was going to send him a note saying it’s not easy doing what I do, is it? It’s not easy, Mike. Not easy for any of them. Now, Mike didn’t do too well. He went way down. It’s all right. Mini mike. How about Klobuchar, did you see her? She choked. She choked. She couldn’t breathe. Alfred E. Neuman looked at her and said something slightly derogatory and she said, “Are you accusing me of being dumb?” Who would make a statement like that? Because that’s really what he was doing, but he doesn’t want to say that. No, how about that? “Are you saying I’m dumb?” That was the end of her campaign in my book. You don’t say that. Even if it’s true, you don’t say that. They had a crazy person on today on one of the Fox shows. I tell you, Fox doesn’t treat us the way they used to. But we have the great Sean Hannity, we do, and we have Laura and Tucker. And we have in the morning Fox and Friends, Steve and Ainsley, and Brian’s gotten much better, he’s moving up. And we have the great Lou Dobbs. Lou Dobbs says he’s the greatest president ever. The great Lou Dobbs. He says, Lou Dobbs a year and a half, two years ago he said, “He’s the greatest since Reagan.” Then he said about six months ago, “He’s better than Reagan.” And then he said a few nights ago, “He’s the greatest we’ve ever had.” I said, “Does that include Lincoln and George Washington?” He said, “That includes them all.” That’s Lou Dobbs. The great Lou Dobbs. And you’ve got Hegseth and you’ve got Jesse Waters. How about Jesse? And Judge Jeanine and even Greg Gutfeld. Greg hated us, right? But now he says, “Look, whether I like him or not, he gets it done. It’s all about getting it done.” We’re getting it done. Nobody’s ever done what we’ve done. No, but Fox says, and I don’t know, it’s different. It was different. In the old days, it was better for us. It was better for us. But it’s okay, we’ll win anyway.

  (11:40)
No, but they had this woman on. Neil Cavuto, doesn’t treat us good. Neil Cavuto, he’s not too good. She said, “I don’t like him.” Nobody likes him. Right now… So you had, remember Lest in The Readies? You remember who was Lest in The Readies? He got fired, right? You remember, right? Remember? He’s gone and now Neil’s taking his place. Neil is actually a nice guy, but he doesn’t like Trump too much. And he put this woman on today and she said, “Donald Trump didn’t do well in the debates and he won,” because she was referring to Mike Bloomberg, sometimes referred to as Mini Mike. And I said, “Wait a minute, I won every debate.” It’s true. And we sent them polls, poll after poll after poll. Not only won them, but won by a lot. I won every debate. I’m just saying every poll, they do those polls right after, three, four, 500,000 people, Time Magazine. I said, “Nobody’s allowed to do that. You can’t do that.” We’re at enough of a disadvantage with the fake news. They make up 90% of the story.

  (12:54)
So where is Dan Scavino? Where is Scavino? Does anyone know who Dan Scavino is? Dan, bring me those pages up here. Bring those pages up. See if you can get them. Go get them. It’s such fake news. It’s so disgusting. You know what? They’d do better if they told the truth. Do you agree? They’d do better. Oh, someday in 10, 14, 18, 22 years when I’m gone, when we leave office in 26 years or so, they’re going to miss us.

  (13:36)
I told the story that a month before I ran, 2016 I was thinking about it. I said to my wife, who has become a great First Lady. People love here. They said it’s one of the greatest fields ever assembled. And I said, “What the hell should I run for if they are so great?” But I remember holding up the New York Times and it was like a leaflet that you give a certain, a supermarket, right? It’s like, the thing was blowing in the wind. It was dead and now it’s successful again. But when we leave, it’s all of us. We leave together. We’re unified. This is the most unified the Republican party has ever been. And when we leave, the New York Times… Thank you. The great Dan Scavino, the most powerful man in politics.

  (14:34)
Hey Dan. So Zuckerberg left. Who is number one in the world on Facebook? And I’m saying this in front of the fake news because if I’m wrong, they’re going to report me, right? Who is number one in the world on Facebook?

  (14:54)
He walked in, but that’s us. He walked in for… We had dinner recently just because I want them to pay taxes. I want to find out what’s going on. But he walked in, he’s smart, and he said, “I just want to congratulate you.” Small dinner, a few people. He said, “You’re number one in the world in Facebook.” I said, “That’s nice.” I said, “Who’s number two?” He said, “Prime minister Modi of India.” I said, “Wait a minute, wait a minute. He’s got 1.5 billion people and we have 350 so he should be number one.” But we’re never going to give up that position of number one in the world for our country, for Facebook, for Twitter, for anything, and they still haven’t figured it out. They have not figured it out. But look at all that press. Look at all that press.

  (15:46)
By the way, how bad were the Academy Awards this year? Did you see it? And the winner is a movie from South Korea. What the hell was that all about? We got enough problems with South Korea with trade, on top of it they give them the best movie of the year. Was it good? I don’t know yet. I’m looking for, let’s get Gone with the Wind. Can we get Gone with the Wind back, please? Sunset Boulevard. So many great movies. The winner is from South Korea. I thought it was best foreign film, right? Best foreign movie. No, it was the [inaudible 00:16:25]. Did this ever happen before? And then you have Brad Pitt. I was never a big fan of his. He got upset. A little wise guy statement. A little wise guy. He’s a little wise guy.

  (16:39)
Anyway, but we’re doing what? Over here, I just showed this real quick. Right? So this horrible journalist, she’s a real, she’s a Trump hater. You know what she’s worth? Zero ratings. Nobody watches her, but she said… she was trying to… Look, Bloomberg made a fool out of himself last night. He choked. He’s another one who’s going, ” Oh I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe. Don’t ask me the question, please.” I look at my wife, I said, “Let’s send him a little note. It’s not so easy up there to do what I did, right?” Not so easy.

  (17:20)
But this woman who is a third rate, fourth rate, she’s been with everybody. Every year she’s with a different group, but I won’t use her name because it’ll make her too famous. It actually plays to their advantage. But she’s third rate and she’s on the lowest rated show at Fox, Neil Cavuto. That’s why. So she said, “Donald Trump didn’t get good ratings. He didn’t do well in the polls.” She said, “He didn’t do well on the debates.” She said that we were defeated in the debates. Well I defeated crooked Hillary every time and by a lot. Yeah, she’s crooked as a $3 bill. I was going, “Whatever happened to the 33,000 emails? Whatever happened?” 33,000, she deleted them and her acid washed them and she didn’t get in trouble. Can you imagine if a Republican did that? They would want to bring back the death penalty, right? Two standards. But I think things are happening.

  (18:44)
I said drain the swamp, I just never knew how deep it was. We have more garbage in the swamp than you would ever believe. And this is part of the swamp. So what happens? She said, “Donald Trump didn’t do well in the debates.” Now remember my answer, Rosie O’Donnell, right? First question I’ve ever, and we took down the house. Then the second, Brett Barry asked me, I had to raise the hand. I’m the only one, I guess that raised the hand. Right? And the place went crazy because I was the only one telling the truth. Okay? Turns out I was the only one telling… And the people get it. But she said I didn’t do well on the bench. I said, “Really? I won every single debate.” We had 15 to 14 debates, then we had the presidential debates with crooked Hillary against myself. So here’s one. I don’t want to… I’m a little guilty because these are all my friends, right? A lot of them are my friends now. They weren’t my friends then, they were my mortal enemy. It’s hard to be friends when you’re competing against somebody.

Speaker 2: (19:43)
[inaudible 00:19:44].

  (19:44)
You’re right about that. So here’s Donald Trump, 67. The next one was 13%. the next one was 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 2%, 2%, 1%, 1%, and 0. All right, that’s Time Magazine. All right, that’s Time. They don’t like me. I don’t like them either, by the way. Although actually I do like the new owner. This year I got beaten out by Gretta. You know Gretta? Last year I got beaten out… I mean, I’ve won it. But when the world evolves around all of us, we should be chosen. There’s nothing wrong with it, right? I mean, we’ve won it, but we should win it every single year, let’s face it. And now they call it person of the year. They don’t go out man of the year. And I know the women out there are saying, “Isn’t that nice?” But a lot of the women out there don’t like it. They don’t like it. We could have a woman of the year and a man of the year. I like that.

  (20:56)
Okay, here’s Drudge Report. Drudge is starting to treat me good again. He started to like me again. I like him. Look, Trump and Ted Cruz, I can say he came in second. He was a great debater. And Marco came in third and a guy who I don’t like much and they don’t like him much in Ohio either, Kasich. Kasich. He was way down. Way down. Okay, look who won? Trump. Here’s another one. Look again, a different one, Time Magazine. Trump, 33%. Ben Carson, good man, he was down. Marco, Jed, Ted. Carly Fiorina, a name I haven’t heard in a long time. What happened to Carly? And ran, good poll. Here’s the story. Look, but way up. Way up. Look at this. Here’s another one. Look at this. Trump 46%. I didn’t make this up. Here’s another one. This is a different debate. I don’t know. They’re all different. I won every one of them. Look, Trump, I just took these at random, 46%. second, 5%, 3%, 5%, 3%, 9%, 5%, 11%. Trump, 46%. Here’s another one, CNBC. Well, the market’s been up. They’ve actually been not so bad and Joe Kiernan is a good guy. He is a good guy. Some of the rest, I don’t care for it too much. Becky’s like, she plays it a little bit down in the middle, right? Which is okay. Trump, almost 50%. Then they have all the rest of them. 14, 4, 3, 2, 2.8, 2.54, 1.9, I’m not going to give you the names. I won’t tell you that I got 48.8 and Jeb Bush got 1.1. The rest I’m not going to talk about, but he hasn’t been exactly a great supporter, sort of a never Trumper I guess. So Jeb, 1.9, 1.1, and Trump 48. That’s another one. Oh, here’s a nice one. Here’s a nice one. Look at this. Look at this. Trump 70%, next one is 18%, next one is 7, 4, 3, 3, 3, 2, 1, 1, 1. Trump didn’t do well in the debate. See, they’re fake news.

  (23:57)
Here’s another one, Trump Kicked Ass. Trump Kicked Ass. Trump 48, number two was six. Here’s another one. Trump 75.6, crooked Hillary was 24%. This was against crooked Hillary. So look at that. Trump was 74.6, crooked Hillary Clinton was 24.1. Trump was 80%, crooked Hillary was 18%. And I’ve got this woman. You know who it is, right? Nobody knows the name. I’m not going to mention it. But everybody knows Neil Cavuto. She has no credibility and neither do you, Neil Cavuto. Here’s another one. Crooked Hillary, and by the way, one is a Fox poll, one is Breitbart, one is a Drudge report. One is a Patch, one is Syracuse.com, one is Pollack Opinion, Alyssa Goodwin. But look at these numbers. Trump 92. What is it?

  (25:14)
So I’m winning every poll, I beat crooked Hillary. Here’s the one, Trump 61, crooked Hillary 39. Okay? That’s what it is. And then I turn on the damn show on Fox. Again, it’s not the same. It was much better. It really was. It was much better. I turn on Fox and I’ve got this third rate political journalist, if you call her that saying, “Trump did very poorly in the debates, but he became president.” No, I did great in the debates. I became president because of the debates, because unlike Mini Mike, I could answer questions.

  (25:50)
And here’s the final one and I could get you another 15. These are all the ones that taken right after. People call in, hundreds of thousands of people, they call in Time Magazine, CNBC. So here’s a CNBC, crooked Hillary Clinton, 39%. Donald Trump, 61%. and then this stupid person said I didn’t debate well. Now look, I don’t mind and you can have bad debates, but I won every single debate. Listened to this, then three and a half, four years later I have to listen to a person saying how we didn’t do well, because these people are among the most dishonest people anywhere in the world. Take it. Take it. Here it is.

  (26:36)
Okay, let’s get back to business. Now I feel good. Now I feel good. She’s a third rate journalist. Let’s go. We’re standing up in defense of our constitution, our freedom and democracy itself, right? While the extreme left has been wasting America’s time and doing all sorts of vial hoaxes, we went through hoaxes. We went through the impeachment scam. And by the way, Corey was with us all the way. He didn’t move. He didn’t budge. He said it’s a lot of bull. He said it’s a lot of bull. But while they’re doing that stuff and we’re working with a cloud, we’re working with these people. They want to take you out. They want to change the results. They got caught spying, let’s say it like it is, right? They got caught spying on our election. Fake news.

  (27:42)
Hey fake news, take your cameras for a change and show them the room and show them behind you. Go ahead, show them the room. Show them the room. You see, they never do it, including Fox, by the way. Fox is not that much better. We just got lucky because we have some… All their high rated shows are the shows that like Trump, all their losers shows like Cavuto are the shows that don’t like Trump. How is Shep Smith doing lately, by the way? How is Shep Smith? He had the lowest ratings and now Cavuto took his place so that’s okay. But they never show the room.

  (28:45)
My wife, a great First Lady, she goes… I say, “Hi honey. Did you watch the debate?” “Yeah.” “How did the room look? Was that…” because last night I think we turned away 21,000 people. We had an arena that it held 12, but we fill up the basketball courts, right? Or the ice rink. We had to have 15, 16,000 people. It was on fire. You all saw it. It was great. And she said to me, she said, “Darling, how did you do?” I said, “I did great.” I said, “Did you see the arena?” And she said, “No, they never show the arena.” You know that guy Dana White at UFC? I won’t tell you about him yet, but he’s a brilliant guy, right? I mean, he sold his crazy fighters, I mean bomb bomb bomb. $4 billion he got with Fertittas, great people. But you know what? They’re always showing it’s full. It’s full. These fakers back there, they don’t want people. But I’ll tell you what my wife said, “They don’t show it, but you can’t imitate 15,000 people when it comes to the noise.” Look, they won’t show it. They never show it and we’ve never had an empty seat from the day I came down the escalator, not one.

  (30:23)
What these guys do if Mr. And Mrs. Jones sitting right up there, beautiful couple. If she said, “Darling, I’m sorry, there’s nothing I can do about it, darling. I have to go to the bathroom.” He said, “Darling, I’ll walk with you.” The cameras glong on to those seats, they glong on and they say, “There were two empty seats. Trump didn’t fill up the room.” These are the worst people. But when I told them to spin around those cameras, they stayed that way.

  (30:55)
Now, if we had a protestor somewhere in the arena, it could be up in that corner where it’s loaded up with people, those cameras that can do, they look like a pretzel. They look like a pretzel. They want to find it. There’s trouble, those same guys could, it could cover anything. I used to think, well it’s the equipment, it’s very rigid. They can’t turn it. And then some idiot from up in the corner starts screaming stupid stuff, because that’s dangerous in this room, to be honest. We don’t have it too much. They only pick on the guys that are all by themselves and aren’t fighters. But if somebody up there does something, those cameras turn around, spin around like a pretzel. They bend, boom, they get. So that was the end of my theory that we have rigid equipment. And by the way, I told them, turn around, not one of those cameras turned around to show the room because it’s fake news.

  (31:56)
While the extreme left has been wasting America’s time with vial hoaxes, we’ve been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed, right? We added another 225,000 brand new beautiful jobs last month, way, way, way above what our great geniuses back there thought it would be, 225,000. Think of it, we right now have more people working in our country than at any time in the history of our country, almost 160 billion.

  (32:49)
And right now since the election, we go by the election. Don’t forget, a lot of things happened when we won. From the day we won that beautiful November day, the most exciting night in the history of television, including UFC fights, the most exciting night, the biggest ratings in the history of television worldwide. They were watching. I have friends in Paris and London. “What are you doing?” “I’m watching,” 3:00 in the morning, 2:00 in the morning, 5:00 in the morning, they are watching. The whole world was watching. That was the most exciting television that anybody’s ever seen. Even ESPN, some guy on ESPN said, “This is the most exciting event I’ve ever seen.” And all he does is watch sporting events and big ones. But since the election, 7 million brand new beautiful jobs have been added and we’ve invested more than $2 trillion into that military that we talked about. And we created-

  (34:03)
Into that military that we talked about, and we created something that’s very exciting. And we have our great new General. He’s on the … he’s on our … I’ll tell you, he was on a list of the most incredible men you’ve ever seen. The sixth branch of the United States Armed forces, the Space Force.

  (34:28)
And I will be making a big decision for the Space Force as to where it’s going to be located, and I know you want it. We’ll be making that decision toward the end of the year. I was here, I did your … I met … I was up at the Air Force Academy, and I greeted those kids, they were so great. I did the commencement address. Was anybody there? I did the commencement address. And the General said, sir, would you like to shake hands with the cadets? I said, does everyone else do it, President? Oh, yes, sir. What he didn’t say is, they’ll shake 10 hands. I said, so they do … how many do you have? Sir, we have 1156 cadets. I said, you mean other people do it? Yes, sir. But they don’t do 1156. They’ll do 30, 40. They’ll take the top 10 out of the class. I said, I’ll do it.

  (35:31)
I stood there for two and a half hours and the sun was blazing. True. And I shook 1156 hands. And a lot of these kids are very strong physically. In fact, you have one of them as an example, he was the winner of the home run derby. Did you know that? College … think of that. The college home run derby. I said, let me see you. I want to see what you look like. He stands up, uniform, everything else. And by the way, I did something for Air Force, but I did something for all of the academies. If you were a great athlete and they had a hard time recruiting, although they’ve done well, if you’re a great athlete, you can’t … we wanted to get them to go, but they didn’t because they didn’t want to serve five years in the military and then they’d go into the NFL or baseball.

  (36:33)
So, I had one of the teams in. They said, sir, give us the waiver, sir. They’ve been after the waiver. You know what the waiver is? That means that if you’re a great athlete, you can go to the Air Force Academy, or Army, Navy, the Coast Guard, you can go to one of our service academies. I did the rule and we got it through Congress. And you don’t have to serve. You go directly into the major leagues and to the NFL, and you serve your time after, when you get out. Isn’t that great?

  (37:08)
And the Army coach, who’s a great guy … all great guys. Navy coach, Army coach, said sir, if you do that, we can compete with anybody, because we lost lot of great athletes who said, you know, we just can’t do that. Now they serve their time afterwards. Isn’t that great? And we did it. They’ve been trying to get that for so many years. But I love that group of people. I saw this guy from the home run derby, and I shook hands. Oh, I shook hands. And they come up and they’re strong people. And they’re shaking, and they’re excited. They’re a little nervous, maybe. They’re meeting the President. They’re a little nervous, and they’re strong. They’ve got big, strong hands, and they’re saying … and I’m saying, hello. Sir, thank you. Man. Jeez. What are you? I’m captain of my wrestling team, sir. I admire you greatly, sir, thank you, sir.

  (38:01)
It’s like … and I’m trying to act like it doesn’t hurt. By the end of the day, I’m going like … but we did it. And then I said, wait a minute. I said, General, no other President could do that. The Presidents don’t do that. He said, no, they do, sir, but they stop, usually, at around 50. Oh, that’s great. But I love the Air Force Academy. And you have all of the infrastructure, so you’re being very strongly considered for the Space Command. Very strongly.

  (38:47)
And actually, I have to say this. I think I can say this, Mr. Senator, but the Governor showed up at the plane today, your Governor. Democrat. No, but in all fairness, he showed up because he wanted to lobby to see if they could get it. That’s okay, that’s all right. And we are going to be making that decision, Cory, when we make that decision, all right? Okay.

  (39:15)
But we’ve destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate 100 percent. We killed the founded and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. He’s dead. He’s dead. And we just killed the world’s number one terrorist, Qasen Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever. Forever and ever.

Crowd: (39:44)
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.

  (39:44)
He was the king of the roadside bomb, right? When you see these young men and in some cases women, no legs, no arms. They get it, and 92 percent of them were from Soleimani, and then they started making them … they had great detection. We had these guys, great detection, then all of a sudden, the detection wasn’t working because they started making them out of plastic instead of metal. So they’re blowing the guys up with the scopes, so they had the scopes on and that happened recently because they started making it out of plastic. Real scum, but he’s gone, he’s evil, he’s dead, and America is respected again like never before.

  (40:53)
But as we keep on winning, Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds. They’ve gone nuts. That’s why millions of registered Democrats, voters, people that were with the Democrats for a long time, they’re leaving their party to join our movement. They’re joining our great Republican party. We have more enthusiasm than any party has had in the last 50 years. And don’t believe stories, and don’t believe polls, because the polls are worse than the stories. They give phony polls.

  (41:39)
I got a call two weeks ago. The great state of Texas. They love me and I love them. Remember Beto? Remember? I was born for this. I was born. I said, any guy that says that, they’ve got problems. Well, he had problems. So he’s from Texas. He had a little problem, he came out against oil and gas, the Bible, and guns. Abraham Lincoln couldn’t win Texas if you’re against … think of it. So he’s against religion, he’s against guns, and he’s against oil. Somehow, that doesn’t play. But they had … listen to this one, because this happened four years ago, you remember? Donald Trump is in trouble in Texas. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. And then they announce at night, 8:00. The polls have closed … and you know they only announce if you’re very … if you’re really going to win by a lot. Otherwise, it takes all night. The polls have closed in the great state of Texas. Donald Trump has won the great state of Texas. Thank you.

  (42:51)
But they had Alfred E. Newman, Buttigieg, little Buttigieg. I said, I’ve had you up to here. They had little Buttigieg leading Donald Trump in Texas. These people. But very close. They said, it’s too close to call, where Buttigieg … so, a friend of mine from Texas, a big, powerful, strong guy, real Texas, he’s got the cowboy hat … I’d love to wear that hat, I wouldn’t have to comb my hair so much. I wouldn’t need hairspray, right? I love those Texas hats. I don’t know if we’d get away with it in Washington, that’s my only problem, but I love them. This guy wears that big hat, the biggest hat. He’s a big guy. And he’s interviewed by somebody. He said, listen, I don’t know much about politics, but I can tell you one thing. Buttigieg is not tied with the President. The President is leading him by 20 points. It’s like I said the last time, nobody’s leading Trump in Texas. And you know what? Nobody is even close to us in the great state of Colorado. We’re leading big. Nobody.

  (44:09)
With your energy and enthusiasm, this November, and specifically it’s November 3rd is the big day, and this is going to be as big … and I can’t say bigger, because what was bigger than that? They came from the hills, they came from the mountains, they came out of the rivers, they came all over the place. Great people, they just never saw anybody they wanted to vote for. Women would come in, they hadn’t voted in 20 years, great women, beautiful women, strong women, smart women, wives. No, no, incredible. And they love our country and they work hard and they pay their taxes and they work and they’re … we’re the elite, just so you … they’re not the elite, we’re the elite. And you know what? They’d show up, they’ve got Trump bandanas along with our great Vice President Mike Pence, Trump Pence, and they got the hats now and they walk … these are people that were never political people. They never wore a pin. Now they’ve got 30 pins all over their chest, they’ve got the hats with the things and the Trump, and nobody’s ever seen anything like it.

  (45:17)
Really, it’s a great revolution, and we’re turning this country around. And I’m not saying anything can ever compete with 2016, but I think if we don’t do it, a lot of what we’ve done, and we’re going to go over the jobs and the regulation cuts and what we’ve done for the vets with choice and accountability, but you know what? They can undo it, but in four years they can’t undo it, because that tree will be planted. It will be solid. They’re not going to be able to do it, so we’ve got to win.

  (45:51)
And your second amendment is at stake, remember that. So this November, we’re going to take back the House, we’re going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House. So we’re thrilled tonight to be joined by many great leaders from across this incredible state and from all over the country, and I want to thank Mike Pence. I heard he gave a great speech. I never want it to be too good. I never want it to be too good. I said, Mike, take it easy. Can’t be too got. Mike is great. But we have Secretary David Bernhardt, Department of Interior. Thank you. Come on up, Dave. He’s great. What he’s doing, by the way, he’s the largest landlord by a factor of about 2000. Department of the Interior. You’re taking good care of Colorado, please? Okay. He’s a big deal in Colorado, right? He’s a big deal. All those beautiful mountains and rivers and lakes, he’s the guy. You better keep them nice and clean. Believe me, we like the environment more than anybody. We want clean water and we want clean air.

  (47:17)
And you have warriors. You have guys, they fought for us. 197 to nothing. We were … when you think of it, the Republicans, 197 on the house to nothing. Congressman Ken Buck, come on up. Congressman Scott Tipton. And Congressman Doug Lamborn. Thank you, Doug. Thank you.

  (48:07)
And we’re also joined tonight by somebody that you really love, and I love him, too, but there’s a reason. He’s my son. Don junior. And Kimberly Guilfoyle. Kimberly, thank you, Kimberly. And a man … he happens to own the Chicago Cubs, but that’s okay. He’s done an incredible job, actually. He had a five year plan on the fifth year, the stadium was fully rebuilt, and they won the World Series. That’s not bad. He had a five year plan. RNC finance chairman Todd Ricketts. Come on up, Todd. Come on up. Come on up, Todd. And I mentioned him a little earlier, but you didn’t know he was here. I just said he’s a champion, he’s a winner. He’s been a friend of mine for a long time. He’s a tough cookie. He’s the kind of people that made our country great. Truly, they’ve made our country great. He started off with two people fighting each other, then he got four people fighting each other, then he got them fighting each other, each other. Then he got six and eight and 12. All of a sudden people started watching and looking, and I was proud to hold his first event. That’s why he loves me. They didn’t want … they said, it’s too dangerous. Nobody would take it. I’m the only who said, take it. We’ll take it. And it was unbelievable. I went and I said, this is great. Let’s do it again. And he has been my friend for a long time. And they put together a phenomenal deal, it’s called UFC. He’s the UFC president. And they just sold the company. He started it off for about $ 30, and they just sold it for $4 billion. And the people that bought it said, we’re not buying it unless Dana White stays back and runs it. So Dana White, come on up. He’s now a very wealthy guy. Come here. You want to hear from him? Yes.

Dana White: (50:41)
What’s up, Colorado? How are you today? So, I’m not a very political person, I’ll start there, but let me say this. There’s things that I can tell you about the President of the United States that you don’t hear on t.v. and you don’t hear from other people. Like you said, I’ve known this man for 20 years. We’ve actually become even closer since he’s become the President of the United States. When somebody becomes the President of the United States, you don’t ever expect to hear from them again, and I understand it. It absolutely makes sense. This guy is so loyal and such a good friend, every time I see him … I saw him today. When I met him on Air Force One, the first thing he said to me is, how is your family? How is your family? Good man, very loyal, and a very good friend. I see a lot of things from Mr. Trump that the public doesn’t see, and the people who surround me every day see how this man treats me as a friend, and other people he’s friends with. He’s a fighter, he loves this country, he’s doing great things for this country, and we got to win this election again, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.

Crowd: (52:02)
USA. USA. USA.

  (52:19)
That was beautiful, because we get tired of hearing from these politicians all the time. Right, politicians? What a job he does, and we thank you very much, Dana, and you are my great friend, and thank you.

  (52:31)
So, I want to bring up a man who’s going to win the election with us. And really, he has been so rock solid. There were stories, will he … because we’re doing great in the state. We’re doing great. And your second amendment, you like the second amendment, it’s [inaudible 00:52:52]. But with Cory and with me, they’re not going to play with your second amendment. Not going to happen, but it’s … it is under siege. You see what’s happening. But somebody … we fight together, and he’s been so great. Cory Gardner, please come on up, please.

Sen. Cory Gardner: (53:07)
Thank you.

Crowd: (53:07)
Cory. Cory. Cory. Cory. Cory.

Sen. Cory Gardner: (53:20)
Good evening, Colorado. How’s everybody doing? Now I want you to give a great, big, Pikes Peak welcome to the President of the United States. Now, I think they heard you on Pikes Peak, but they didn’t hear you on Mount Garfield. Give him another round of applause. Colorado, we are going to win. We are going to win because we believe in Colorado. We are going to win because we believe in America. We are going to win because we will fight against the socialist tides across this country. The Democrats are trying, but they’re not going to win.

Sen. Cory Gardner: (54:20)
Look, there was a dangerous thing that happened in 2016. It was the normalization of socialism by Bernie Sanders. The most dangerous thing was the normalization of socialism by Bernie Sanders, because what happened? Candidates started running as socialists. They embraced the platform. And today, there aren’t shades of socialism. They are running to the left on a socialist platform. They want to take our guns, they want to take our healthcare, that’s their platform. What they say they will do, Colorado, are we going to let it happen?

Crowd: (54:59)
No.

Sen. Cory Gardner: (55:00)
We will no. Mr. President, you have done so much good for Colorado. As a result of your work, the Bureau of Land Management is now headquartered in the great state of Colorado. United States Space Command and Space Force are operating out of Colorado Springs. And just a few miles to the south, a few miles to the south … please understand how big this is. In 1962, President John F. Kennedy went to Pueblo, Colorado, and he talked about building a pipeline in Pueblo, Colorado. Was it built?

Crowd: (55:43)
No.

Sen. Cory Gardner: (55:44)
We got the money two weeks ago to begin construction thanks to President Donald Trump. Colorado, Dana White is here. What does it take to win a cage fight? We need a fighter. And in Colorado, we are going to fight for this country. We are going to fight for the White House. We’re going to maintain a Senate majority because we need to continue the great work of freedom in this country. Colorado, make us proud. Stand strong, and together, we will win. Thank you.

  (56:43)
Thank you. That’s beautiful. That’s true of the pipeline. A long time they’ve been trying. We got it right away, and we’ll be announcing something very big toward the end of the year. Cory is a champion for the people of Colorado. He loves your state. Look, he loves your state. He was here, he does the tractor thing. He loves tractors, he sells a certain type. And don’t worry, if there’s any noise, just let them … they won’t hear us. And he’s got my complete and total support and endorsement. He will never let you down.

Crowd: (57:14)
[inaudible 00:57:14].

  (57:14)
That was quick. That was quick. She goes home to mom, and mom loves us. You know her mother’s a big supporter. She said, was that you in that big stadium? I’m not liking it. She’s going to have a lot of trouble at home with mom and dad. Together we’re building the world’s most prosperous economy, and what we’ve done in the last three year they said was absolutely impossible to do. We’ve created nearly 180,000 new jobs right here in Colorado, nobody would have thought that, including 25,000 new manufacturing and construction jobs. Remember they said, you can’t do manufacturing jobs anymore. Really? Tell me about it. Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over one half a century. The average unemployment rate, this is a beauty, for my administration is the lowest for any United States President in the history of our country. That’s not a bad [inaudible 00:58:54].

  (58:57)
The unemployment rate among African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and Asian-Americans has reached the lowest levels ever recorded. And for women, 71 years, and soon you’re going to be hitting the historic number. 71 years, the best numbers in 71 years. African-American and Hispanic-American poverty has plummeted to the lowest rates ever recorded. The unemployment rate for women is going … and I’m telling you, within a very short period of time, you’re going to see some statistics coming out on … statistics. I’ve got to do it right, otherwise they’ll say, what’s wrong? If you go 16 of these, and if you mispronounce one word, they say, what’s wrong? Statistics for women that are going to be unbelievable. They’re going to be unbelievable. The best ever.

  (01:00:07)
The veterans’ unemployment rate dropped to a record low. Workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment ever recorded in U.S. history. Half a million more Hispanic-Americans now own a home. We’ve lifted 10 million people off of welfare, and median household income is now at the highest level in the history of our country. Think of that. Think of this.

  (01:00:42)
To lift up forgotten communities that need investment the most we created with Tim Scott great guy, great Senator from South Carolina, opportunity zones. Jobs and investment are now pouring in to over 125 newly-designated opportunity zones right here in Colorado. You know about that, right? It’s been amazing. Opportunity zones are amazing, what’s happened.

  (01:01:10)
We’re supporting working families by fighting for paid family leave and getting it, reducing the cost of child care, and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 in their pockets directly thanks to the Republican child tax credit. People don’t know that.

  (01:01:35)
Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is ending the tyranny of Washington bureaucrats. We repealed the ridiculous waters of the United States rule, which was basically taking away your property. And we are taking the Bureau of Land Management out of Washington, DC. We’re just on it, and thank you very much Secretary Bernhardt. Just up here, nice, slim, beautiful looking man. He looks beautiful. When you work with him he’s beautiful because he gets it done, and you’re moving it and it’s headquarters to Grand Junction, Colorado because we believe that the people who manage the lands of the great American west should live right here in the great American west. And we have ended the war on American energy. It was a war, and we’re up here and we’re doing it. We are right now energy independent, can you believe it? They want to use wind, wind, wind. Blow wind, please. Please blow. Please keep the birds away from those windmills, please. Tell those beautiful bald eagles, oh, a bald eagle. You know, if you shoot a bald eagle, they put you in jail for a long time, but the windmills knock them out like crazy. It’s true. And I think they have a rule, after a certain number are killed you have to close down the windmill until the following year. Do you believe this? Do you believe this? And they’re all made in China and in Germany. Siemans.

Crowd: (01:03:25)
Boo.

  (01:03:29)
And for those of you that want to hear it, when they’re making them, more stuff goes up into the air and up into the ozone, the atmosphere. More stuff is going up there, they’re making it, ay, ay, ay. And they don’t say this, but after a period of time they get tired, they get old, they get rusty, and a lot of the guys say, hey, their useful life is gone. Let’s get the hell out of here, and they’re all over the place. You look at Palm Springs, California. Take a look. Palm Springs, they’re all over the place. They’re closed, they’re rotting, they look like hell.

  (01:04:01)
Every major Democrat running for President wants to entirely eliminate American production of oil and natural gas, crushing Colorado’s economy, destroying tens of thousands of Colorado energy jobs and demolishing property values all across the state. They’re doing that. Look, you’re going to vote for one of these people, probably crazy Bernie. He seems to be leading.

Crowd: (01:04:24)
Boo.

  (01:04:29)
Mini Mike, I thought he might come up, but he can’t because he can’t debate. He wasn’t meant for the camera, do we agree?

Crowd: (01:04:37)
Yes.

  (01:04:37)
He wasn’t exactly great last night.

Crowd: (01:04:41)
[inaudible 01:04:41].

  (01:04:41)
No, I think he lost too last night. Only in Colorado could somebody say that. No, you’re going to probably … it looks like Bernie, doesn’t it? It looks like crazy Bernie. Crazy Bernie’s not big into natural gas and oil, and the things that keep our great factories and plants going. But Colorado voters will never let it happen.

Crowd: (01:05:06)
No.

  (01:05:07)
We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entrance into the WTO. But under this administration, all of that is changing. The era of economic surrender is over, thank you. It’s over. Last month, we ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new U.S-Mexico-Canada agreement into law. Incredible deal. The USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Colorado and every other state.

  (01:05:56)
Also, something we got that people don’t talk about, if you love your children, you don’t have to pay estate taxes on your beautiful small farms and businesses. If you love your children, it’s great, and if you don’t love your children, don’t worry about it. Who in the hell knows. If you don’t love them, don’t leave that beautiful farm to your children. Give it to somebody else, okay? If they don’t treat you well, give don’t leave them a damn thing. Are you listening, Donnie? Are you listening, Donnie? I also took … no, it is true. That’s a big deal. Farmers were leaving their ranch and their farms and their … people were leaving their small businesses to their family and they were being assessed in valued much higher in many cases than it was worth. You couldn’t do it. They’d go out … your kids would go out and borrow a lot of money. They’d end up losing their business, losing your farm that was in your family for 150 years. You know what happens. And they’re good kids, and maybe they’ll never be you. They can’t farm like you and maybe they can’t any maybe they can, maybe they’re better. But you know what? They’d go out and they’d borrow a lot of money and they’d lose the farm. The numbers are staggering. We got rid of it. No more death tax, no more inheritance tax.

  (01:07:18)
And I also took the strongest ever action to confront China’s massive theft of American jobs. What they’ve done to us over the years, we were losing 200 billion, 300, 400, 500, not million, billion. Billion. Not million. 500 million would be a lot. We’re talking about 500 billion, they were taking it. Our strategy worked. We put tariffs up, 25 percent on the first 250 billion. Billions of dollars poured into the United States. They devalued their currency and they pumped money in. We didn’t pay for it despite the fact that these guys … they like to say they did, we didn’t pay for it, and I’ll tell you what. China-

  (01:08:03)
They like to say they did. We didn’t pay for it. I’ll tell you what, China came to the table, and we made a deal that’s great for us and hopefully it’s great for them. Last month, as you know, we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, and boost American exports $250 billion worth of purchases, $50 billion worth of farm agricultural purchase, $50 billion.

  (01:08:33)
You know the most they ever purchased were $16 billion. You know that story. I’ve told it a couple of times. $16 billion was the most ever. Secretary Sonny Purdue agriculture, he’s done a great job. I said, “Who’s the most? What’s the biggest year?” “$16 billion, sir.” I said, “All right, make it 20.” So they agreed on 20 so now we’re getting ready to close the deal, biggest trade deal ever made, biggest deal ever made. We’re getting ready to close the deal between that and USMCA. We’re getting ready to close it. I go over, I say, “What do you have down for the farmers? They’ve been great,” although I have been helping you out. I gave you a lot of money. I gave you a lot of money. $16 billion on year, $12 billion from the year before. I took it out of the tariffs or we had a lot leftover, but think of it.

  (01:09:24)
But I said, “So tell me fellas, let me ask you, what do we have? What’s the number?” ” 20 billion, sir.” They’re going to purchase 20 billion worth of farm products. I said, “Make it 50. Tell them to make it 50.” So, we went to China and they were great. You know they got 1.5 billion people. You got a lot of feeding to do. I said, “Do me a favor, instead of 20 billion purchased from our farmers, would you make it 50?” “No, no, no, no, no,” and they agreed to do it. They agreed to it.

  (01:09:57)
I don’t think you’re going to be able to make it. You better be able to make it. I don’t want the farmers coming to me, sir, sir, I’m sorry we can’t produce that much, sir. I said, “Our farmers will find a way. They’ll go out and buy larger tractors and they’ll buy some extra land.” Go out and buy a bigger tractor or something. No, but it is true. I’ve had people say, “Sir, they can’t produce that much.” I said, “Forget it.” They will. Look at them. You’re a farmer. They’ll figure that one out. Although Mike Bloomberg said you’ll never figure it out. They’ll figure it out long before him. You’ll figure that one out long before him. No, I know the farmers. I’m not worried about it. $50 billion on no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than on immigration.

  (01:10:52)
Every day Democrats open border policies are harming and killing innocent lives. This region alone, last year ICE officers arrested over 2000, and by the way, our ICE officers, these guys are tough and they’re brave. Over 2000 criminal aliens, that’s MS-13 gangs, thousands, and they bring them back to where they came from. By the way, now their countries take them back. They weren’t taking them back, safe third agreements. They take them back. Charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery, rape, and murder. We bring them back and in some cases we don’t even want to bring them back. We have to put them. I don’t want to house them for the next 50 years, but you know what? We don’t want to take chances either, but we’ll bring them back to Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico. We bring them back. They didn’t use to take them. They said, “We don’t want them back. Oh, okay, we’ll keep them ourselves.” We don’t do that anymore.

  (01:11:57)
In Denver, an illegal alien was recently charged with brutally stabbing a judge multiple times, attempting to murder him his own home. The alien had been arrested 36 times over the past 20 years. Other than that, he was a very fine fellow, for crimes including assault and child abuse, yet somehow they kept letting him go and he was still in our country. In communities across the nation, radical, and we’re watching them very closely, left wing politicians are imposing deadly sanctuary cities, and sanctuary states, and policies that compel local law enforcement to release these illegal aliens straight into your beautiful communities. Last year, Colorado Democrats enacted a law declaring this entire state to be a sanctuary for dangerous criminals.

  (01:13:02)
As a result of state and local sanctuary policies, officials in Boulder defied federal law enforcement and released a previously deported child molester into the community. In Denver, officials released a criminal alien arrested on felony drug charges, and now he is a very dangerous man. We just caught him for attempted murder. Right here in Colorado Springs, El Paso County officials defied the requests of federal law enforcement and released a criminal alien arrested for robbery, assault, and kidnapping. They released him straight into your community. These are the Democrats. These are your Democrats. Democrats think that Colorado should be a haven for murderers, predators, kidnappers, and felons in our country and that come in illegally. Republicans believe that Colorado should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. If you want to shut down sanctuary cities and stop sanctuary states, if you want to protect your family and your loved ones, you must vote for Cory, vote for Trump, vote for the Republican party. We’re getting it done.

  (01:14:36)
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we’ve reduced illegal border crossings for eight straight months in a row. Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring, and we have ended the horrible practice of catch and release. You know what you do? You catch him. You say, “Where do you live?” They don’t live here. They don’t have an address. “Where do you live? Give us your address.” They don’t have an address. Many are criminals. Many are very dangerous criminals. So they’re saying, and we are building the wall. It’s gone up 122 miles as of yesterday.

  (01:15:52)
It’s a serious wall. Did you hear? Two weeks ago, a small section, twice the size of this stage, we were putting it up and they’re pouring the concrete, and a lot of, it’s Mexico, it’s very rough territory, some of it. It’s partially desert. We were in a rough area, very windy, and we had a tremendous sand and wind storm. So we hadn’t put it in. We put it in and it was just getting set, and we got hit with a tornado of wind and it blew it down, and the fake news said Trump’s wall fell down. It was blown down. But see, at least we have a voice where we can explain. It’s true. We lifted it up and we held it up. When the storm went by, we had it set and it’s set beautifully, and the following day, that sucker is going to be up for many, many years. Can you imagine?

  (01:16:58)
I said what happened in a certain area, and we’re doing a great job by the way, in New Mexico. New Mexico is going to be a great, great state for the Republican party, and Arizona, what we’re doing on the border in Arizona, they want us to do it badly. But can you imagine that? A thing falls over because the concrete was just poured, it’s soaking wet and it falls over, and they make it sound like the wall fell down. These are very, very dishonest people, but you know that.

  (01:17:29)
Border patrol has seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics over the last year ever recorded. It’s horrible what’s happening, the largest amount ever recorded. We’ve deported record numbers of gang members, especially the MS-13 gang members, but there are others that are just as bad. We’ve done more to secure the border than any administration in the history of our country. The border is going to be very soon secured. We’ll have, some time next year, over 500 miles of beautiful, powerful wall built.

  (01:18:13)
Washington Democrats have never been more extreme taking cues from crazy Bernie Sanders, 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie’s healthcare takeover that would strip 180 million Americans of their great private coverage that you want. While the Socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare, and trying to destroy your social security, that won’t happen with me, my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great, great healthcare, already done a good job. We’re defending your right to keep the doctor, and to keep the plan of your choice. Remember, President Obama 28 times, he said, “Keep your doctor. Keep your plan. Keep your doctor. Keep your plan. Keep your doctor. Keep your plan.” Right? It was a lie. We should impeach him. We should impeach him. Impeach Obama. Get him out of office.

  (01:19:27)
No, nobody thought of that. We caught him in a lie 28 times at least. He’s on record. We caught him in a lie, but nobody said let’s impeach him. Only these maniacs, crazy Nancy Pelosi, crying Chuck Schumer. What about the little pencil neck, right? Pencil neck. He’s got the world’s smallest neck. Here’s a guy that lied about my statement. He made up a statement and he delivered it before a contract. He made up a statement. It was totally fiction. He made it up and then they tell me, you’re getting ready to sue him, and they say, “Oh no, he’s protected because he made the statement in the halls of Congress.” That should be worse. No, that should worse. Little wise guy.

  (01:20:16)
We’re making healthcare better and much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the five years before I took office. We’re now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive and they’re better. They’re better. We’re protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will. We’re fighting to stop surprise medical billing. I signed an executive order imposing price transparency. That’s going to be bigger than healthcare in a certain way. Watch the prices come down because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very, very fast. We have approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the name brand drugs, but at a tiny fraction of the cost.

  (01:21:11)
We have totally transform veteran’s health care, including getting the long sought VA choice and VA accountability. So, now if our veterans have to wait in line, they go out to a doctor, a local doctor, we pay the bill and they’re all set. They don’t have to wait for six weeks. He’s agreeing, right? Good. Right? You don’t see those stories. You used to see all these horrible vet stores, veterans, the veterans on television, and you don’t see it because veterans choice, it’s amazing. Our great veterans, here’s a man right here. You’re saying, yes. Purple Heart. Thank you. Thank you. That’s great.

  (01:22:05)
But it’s a lot different under Trump, isn’t it? A lot different under Trump, and now you go out to a private doctor, but you know, we also got accountability. They’ve been trying to get these things done for 45, 46, 48 years, couldn’t get them done. I’m good at getting things approved. I have to say. But, we also got accountability where we can fire people that aren’t taking care of our vets. If somebody isn’t doing a good job, you couldn’t fire him. Now you look at him, you say, “Get the hell out of here. You’re fired.”

  (01:22:35)
We passed another thing. For 44 years, they’ve been trying to get it passed, the spectacular Right to Try, where we can use our medicines that are in trial if somebody is terminally ill or very sick, we can use it and we are having tremendous results, Right to Try. I hope that nobody in this room needs it. I hope you don’t need it, but if you do, we have the best in the world, and we’re seeing amazing results. We’re combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years. We are pursuing new advances in neonatal research to care for America’s youngest patients and breaking all records in so doing.

  (01:23:29)
All of the radical Democrats in the Presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb, right up until the very moment of birth. You know that. That is why at my State of the Union, I asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion for babies, because republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.

  (01:24:20)
The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total obliteration of your second amendment. That’s what it is. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln. People forget that. People forget Honest Abe. He’s the most presidential guy. I’ve always said I could be more presidential than anybody, but I’m not sure I can beat Honest Abe when he wears the hat. That hat is too much. It’s so easy to be presidential, so easy. It’s so much easier than doing what I have to do, but you know what I’d have? I’d have about three people in the front row.

  (01:25:21)
How about sleepy Joe? How about his performance? What? What? It’s great to be with the great people of Ohio. Joe, Joe, you’re in Iowa. You’re an Iowa. Oh, wow. He did it five times. So far, I’ve never done it. Thank you. I’ve never done it. If I do it, that’s a bad sign. Now he does it all the time. He was in New Hampshire and he said he was in Vermont. It’s great to be in Vermont. Joe, you’re in New Hampshire. Dammit. He’d go up and tell him again and again. Joe, what the hell is wrong with you, Joe? Sleepy Joe. He’s sleepy Joe. He was sleepy a long time ago, but now he’s really sleeping. But it’s easy to be presidential. You know that. The easiest thing you could do is presidential. Never open your jacket. Never. It’s got to be buttoned up. Right? Ladies and gentleman, the President of the United States. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. It’s so great to be with the people of Colorado. Thank you, everybody. Good night. Good night.

  (01:26:59)
No, no. It’s so easy. It’s so easy, honestly. Look, I did very well with the State of the Union, right? They said it was one of the best. Smart, smart. Smart guy. We do good. We’re representing you. I better do good. If I didn’t do good, you’d dump me so fast. Actually, I don’t think you would dump be so fast, actually. You want to know the thing? She said, “we’re never dumping you.”

  (01:27:29)
Fake news CNN went up to a woman. “What does it take for you to leave the President?” “I’m not leaving him.” There were 10 women, and the one woman, beautiful, incredible women, and they had their bandanas, they had hats, Trump, and stupid CNN, they go up, “What does it take for you?” Then he goes, “Look, he said one time that his people are so good, they’d stay with him if he shot somebody in the middle of Fifth Avenue.” Do you remember? Right? ” Would you stay if he shot somebody?” This is actually an answer, or something to the effect, “Would you say every shot somebody in the middle of Fifth Avenue?” The woman looks, “Well, it depends why he shot him.” Makes sense.

  (01:28:19)
Depends why he shot him. But then they said, “We’re not leaving him. We’re never leaving him.” We’re in thing together, folks. We got the swamp. We got that dirty, rotten swamp. We got crooked politicians. We got a lot of bad people, but we’re getting them out one by one. We better be, little Adam Schiff, that little Adam Schiff. What a crooked politician. He’s a corrupt politician.

  (01:28:50)
Talking about guys, he’ll lie and then the next day get caught. He’ll be sorry that he got caught. The next day he’ll walk up to the mic and say exactly the same thing. He’s got no shame. He’s got no shame. He’s a liar. I think he’s a sick person.

  (01:29:06)
Republicans are fighting for the citizens from every background, every community, and every walk of life. You know that we’re the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy and enthusiasm. We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement. We are the big tent. We are the big party. We have the big ideas for the future. Republicans are fighting for school choice, big deal, it’s a big deal, because no parents should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school.

  (01:29:42)
To uphold the new rule of law, we have confirmed 217 brand new, beautiful federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. That’s a record. That is a record that it includes 192 judges who are appointed for a lifetime. So, think of it. If they’re 40 years old, if they’re 45 years old, they can be there for 40, 50 years. As you know, and by the way, that’s a record by a lot. I have the record, but there’s one record that probably nobody will get the percentage record. Who has the percentage? Do you know? George Washington, 100%. But it was only 16 people. So, with 217, can you imagine that? It’s a record and we’re going up. We’re going up.

  (01:30:50)
The Democrats are thrilled about that one, and as you know, I have nominated and we have confirmed two great new Supreme court justices, Colorado zone, right? Colorado. That’s right. Colorado zone, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. Neil Gorsuch, that’s right. Colorado. He’s a great guy, too, great guy. Colorado. That’s a big thing. That’s another great check you have down for count. Neil Gorsuch.

  (01:31:25)
I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. They said they were going to do it for years. We recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Our investments in the United States military include more than $300 million this year. Has anyone ever heard of a place called Fort Carson? Another place, Peterson Air Force Base, you know that. Another place, the Air Force Academy, you know that, and Schriever, right, Air Force Base Schriever. Schriever. Was that right? Schriever, right? Schriever, that’s a little tricky one. It took me a little while. I’m looking at that sucker. I’m saying, “Schriever, right.” Thank you. That’s very nice. He saw he was having a little trouble with that one. That’s tricky. You don’t like to mispronounce a word. You come to a great place like this and instead of calling it Fort Carson, you go at Fort crasson, and they say, “Oh, this guy doesn’t know anything about us.” No, a lot of money going into Fort Carson. It’s great.

  (01:32:50)
For years, you watched as your politicians apologize for America. You saw that. Well, I’d like to apologize. We don’t apologize. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Colorado. At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for, they wanted to secure these great rights that we all have, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020, November 3rd. Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. We’ll get it finished. We’ll get it finished. They’re bad people. They’re all over the place. They’re bad people.

  (01:33:54)
With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. You know that. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane and lawful system of immigration. We will continue to enact great new trade deals like we’ve been doing. I’m going to India next week and we’re talking trade. They’ve been hitting us very hard for many, many years, but I really like Prime Minister Modi. We got to talk a little. We’ve got to talk a little business. They’ve been hitting us hard. They give us tariffs. One of the highest in the world is India. But I hear they’re going to have 10 million people, they say anywhere from six to 10 million people are going to be showing up along the route to one of the largest stadiums in the world, the largest cricket stadium in the world, which is brand new and beautiful.

  (01:35:01)
But you know what, and the only problem with doing that, Prime Minister Modi said, “We will have 10 million people greet you.” Here’s my problem. We have a packed house. We have a lot of people, thousands of people that couldn’t get in. It’s going to look like peanuts from now on. I’ll never be satisfied with the crowd. If we have 10 million people in India, how can I be satisfied if we fill up a 60,000 seat stadium? Big deal. See, I’m getting spoiled. He said, “Build a bigger stadium.” That’s good. Colorado, very good. But it’s going to result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA. That beautiful phrase.

  (01:35:56)
We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer. They’ve made such progress, and ending the AIDS epidemic in America. We started a year ago. It should have been started long before in the last administration because they had the technology then. They didn’t start it, but we’re starting it. We’ll have it done within nine years. It’s a 10 year process. Think of that. AIDS. we will land the first woman on the moon and become the first station in the world to plant our flag on Mars.

  (01:36:37)
You have a lot of that action happening right here. We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. That’s a big one. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one, beautiful America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. We live by the words of our national motto, In God We Trust, from Pueblo to Fort Collins, from Denver to Durango, from Black Forest to Broomfield, from Castle Rock to right here in Colorado Springs, we stand on the shoulders of red blooded American Patriots who poured out their heart, and sweat, and soul, to secure our liberty and defend our freedom. Colorado was founded by pioneers and prospectors, cowboys and miners, and ranchers who tamed the wilderness, explored the west, scaled the Rockies, fought the battles, and helped make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the Earth, and we are making it greater every single day greater than ever before.

  (01:39:20)
Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America’s thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of Colorado, the best is yet to come. Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you people of Colorado.




  (00:00)
Thank you very much, Phoenix. We love to be back. We’ll be back a lot. We’re going to win that election. Thank you very much. Hello, Phoenix.

  (00:46)
It’s great being here in the great state of Arizona with thousands of hardworking patriots who believe in God, family, and country. Thank you. Thank you. And with your help this November, we are going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats and we are going to win Arizona in a landslide.

  (01:16)
It’s all over TV that the folks here tonight have helped a great World War II veteran into the arena. I don’t know if he knows it, but he’s right now the hottest celebrity in the world. I don’t know what’s going on here. He might even be hotter than Trump right now, I have to say. Did you see the scene? No, he’s all over television. Even fake news CNN him on. They say he’s a legitimate great hero of World War II. Erwin Julian. Irvin, thank you.

  (02:40)
And I asked my son Don to get a couple of hats and get some things, and give them to Erwin right now. And I want to thank you. Really, that’s a great honor. And thank you for the great job you’ve done. An American Patriot. Thank you very much. Thank you, Don. How did Don do tonight? Okay? He’s good. Good guy. And he loves this country.

  (03:19)
So this is truly an incredible time for America. We have the best economy, the most prosperous country that we’ve ever had, and the most powerful military anywhere in the world by far. Do you remember the good time we had a week ago at the State of the Union? You remember that, right? And that was my honor. But I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback. Our country is stronger today than ever before.

  (04:15)
And after three years, of very unfair and ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades… It was the radical left’s pathetic attempts to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy, and overthrow our entire system of government. But guess what? They failed, and our poll numbers are higher today than they’ve ever been before. And we’re standing up to the defense of our Constitution, our freedom and democracy itself. We’re doing something that’s never been done in the history of our country. This movement has never taken place. Nothing like it ever. And the fake news can attest to it, because if they thought I was saying the wrong thing, it’d be out there immediately. It’d be all over the place. It’d be all over the place. Trump exaggerates. That’s terrible what he says. There has never been a movement like this, and it began very early. It began in 2016 with that wonderful, beautiful night. You remember that, right? That beautiful night in November. And we’re going to have another beautiful night in November. This time, it’s going to be November 3rd. Get ready, November 3rd. We’re coming. We’re coming.

  (05:54)
So we’re having great polls. You’re seeing the polls, except for some of the fake ones. And if I was treated fairly… Meaning, if you were treated fairly by the fake news, we’d be up 20 points higher in the polls. There wouldn’t even be a competitive election. Unfortunately, it’s probably going to be competitive. But I actually think we’re going to win by a lot, just like we did last time. But I really believe we’d be up 20 points. I mean, all they do is negative, negative, phony stuff. Russia, Russia, Russia. The impeachment hoax. That’s a hoax.

  (06:38)
But you know, we had great support from the Republican party in the House. It was 197 to nothing. And in the Senate, it was 52 and-a-half to a half. You know what the half was? A halfwit. And while the extreme left has been wasting America’s time with the hoaxes, we’ve been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion and creed. By the way, they turned away 21,000 people outside, so feel very good. Feel very good. We haven’t had an empty seat. You know what? We haven’t had… True. We haven’t had an empty seat, and this is a tribute to all of us because this is a movement like nobody’s ever seen. But we haven’t had an empty seat since your great… and this is a great first lady. Came down the escalator with me in Trump Tower a long time ago. We haven’t had an empty seat.

  (08:11)
From our rural communities to our inner cities, we’re expanding the blessings of America to all of our citizens. We added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone. You saw that, the geniuses. You saw that. You saw that last month. They were doing predictions on one of the shows. What do you think? Well, I think 60,000. What do you think? I think 100,000. What do you think? I think 84,000. These are the ones that tell you all about how to invest. What do you think? And then they came out 225,000, the market goes up again. 225,000. 225,000. So many manufacturing jobs. So many that frankly, we’re never going to come back. Remember, you need a magic wand, right? They came back. And remember this, we’re paying interest. The past administration didn’t pay interest. They pumped money in like it was candy. And we didn’t pump money in, we took money out. And not that I was happy about that, because I disagree with it. Because frankly, if we kept the old practice which frankly, some people could dispute one way or the other, we would have been up in my opinion, another 10,000 points in the Dow.

  (09:35)
And we’ve set 144 records on the stock market in three years, 144 records. 144 records. Record stock market. And you know what that means? That your 401Ks are up 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%. Guys come up to me. He said, “Mr. President, I just want to thank you. My wife used to look at me like I was a total loser, sir. Every year we lost money for years and years. She said what the hell is wrong with you, Henry? And this year sir, I’m up 92%. She loves to me again. She thinks I’m a genius.” 92% 401K. “She thinks I’m a genius, sir. She loves me again.” Shows what money can do, right? But that makes… And think of this. Seven million new jobs since we were elected, we were elected.

  (10:56)
And when I took over, ISIS was all over the place. And we immediately started. We have destroyed 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We have killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi is dead. And we just took out the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever. And the fake news doesn’t want to tell you that. They don’t want to tell you that. They don’t want to tell you. In fact, do you remember the dog? Great dog, Conan. When we took out, right? We love Conan. Conan’s a tough dog. But when we took out al-Baghdadi, Conan… Remember this? Conan got more publicity than President Trump. That’s okay. They were looking for al-Baghdadi for 16 years. We found him and we took him out. We killed another one last week. The head of Al-Qaeda. He was gone, dead. And America is respected again, respected like never before.

  (12:42)
We’re respected again. We’re no longer the laughingstock that gets taken advantage by every country, including by the way, our allies, who in many cases take a bigger advantage than our enemies. I will tell you that. They take big advantage, but not so much anymore. We’re winning. We’re winning like never before. Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds. They hate the fact that we’re winning. We’re winning big. We’re winning, winning, winning. And that is why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement. They’re joining our great Republican party in droves. You see it all the time. I just spoke to some of your leaders. He said, “This is unbelievable what’s happening. This is unbelievable.”

  (13:55)
You know, there have never been rallies like that. Sleepy Joe Biden the other day had 68 people. And now they have a new member of the crew, mini Mike. Mini Mike. No boxes, we call him no boxes. And I hear he’s getting pounded tonight. You know, he’s in a debate. I hear they’re pounding him. He spent $500 million so far, and I think he has 15 points. It just came out. Hey fake news, how many points does he have right now, 15? They won’t tell you the truth. They won’t tell you the truth. MSDNC, MSDNC is worse than CNN. They’re owned by a company called Comcast. You can have Comcast, a bunch of phonies. But MSDNC is worse than CNN, and they’re all pretty bad. You know, they just came out with a poll. They just came out with a poll a little while ago. Mini Mike was at 15, and crazy Bernie was at 31. That’s a lot. And mini Mike just spent $500 million. But the DNC is going to take it away from Bernie again. That’s okay, because we don’t care who the hell it is. We’re going to win. We’re going to win. We have to.

Crowd: (15:38)
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.

  (15:38)
Well let me tell you, these crooked politicians, they really took away three years from us. Because despite the fact and nobody disputes it, that we’ve done more in three years with the tax cuts and regulation cuts and the military and the choice and everything, we’ve done more than any administration in history. We’ve done more. But think of it, think of it. We did it with phony witch hunts. We did it with the impeachment hoax over our head the whole time. We did it under circumstances that should never ever happened to another President again. True. But with your energy and enthusiasm this November, we’re going to take back the House, we’re going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House. So we’re thrilled to be joined tonight by some of the best, greatest. I love them. Leaders in America, Arizona leaders. I want to start. Come on up here, Governor Doug Ducey. Come on up here, Doug. Come on up here. You’re going to speak in a second.

  (17:55)
Also, I call them warriors because they fought like hell. They worked with our future Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy. But we have some of your great warriors. Paul Gosar, come up here, Paul. Come up here. Andy Biggs. Andy Biggs, head of the Freedom Caucus. Andy Biggs. David Schweikert. David, come up here. A big, big star. You know about that, Doug. She became this monster star. She looked with such indignation at the other side, such disgust, Debbie Lesko. He’ll be running some day. You said your grandson? Wow. He’ll be running someday. Arizona Senate President, you know who that is, right? Karen Fann. Come up, Karen. Arizona House Speaker, Rusty Bowers. Vice President of the Navajo nation, Myron Lizer. And Arizona Republican party State Chair, Kelly Ward. Kelly Ward, come up.

  (19:33)
And we have a lot of other leaders, but we’ve got to get back to speaking. Do me a favor before I introduce a very special guest, I’d like to ask your great Governor… You know, he won like by 16 points. It wasn’t even a contest. You know, I’m very competitive. I want to beat him. Will you please get out to the polls so we can beat him? But he’s tough to beat. Doug Ducey, say a couple of words, please. Please.

Governor Doug Ducey: (20:09)
Mr. President, we are going to keep Arizona red in 2020. We are going to return President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to the White House. We are going to return Martha McSally to the United States Senate. And we are going to keep our Republican majorities in our congressional delegation and our state chambers.

Governor Doug Ducey: (20:55)
Mr. President, thank you for what you have done for the cause of life. For what you have done for our economy and reducing regulations. And for what you have done for the United States Supreme Court. We’re looking forward to working with you for four more years.

Crowd: (21:30)
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.

  (21:30)
These are great people, great people. Thank you very much. So you know, before I introduce somebody very important to all of us, to me… Also, I have to say with us tonight is an Arizona hockey great, a friend of mine. He’s a great golfer too. He’s a tough golfer. I’ll tell you, he’s tough to beat. He’s tough as hell. And if you beat him in golf, he’ll try and beat you physically. He doesn’t care. He was the toughest hockey player. He was one of these guys, he could beat you one way and if he couldn’t, he just beat them up, right? He’d beat him up. And he’s a friend of mine. He’s a great guy, Jeremy Roenik. Where’s Jeremy? Where is he? Thank you, Jeremy. He’s a winner. We’re also joined by Donald, Jr. and Kimberly. They’re great people, great. And RNC co-chairman, Tommy Hicks. And RNC finance chairman, also happens on a team called the Chicago Cubs, I shouldn’t tell you that… Todd Ricketts.

  (23:22)
So finally, it’s my great honor to introduce a tremendous person, a great fighter pilot. A lot of people don’t know that. She’s a great fighter pilot and a warrior Senate. She helped us so much during the impeachment hoax, she didn’t wobble one bit, Martha McSally. You know, Martha’s tough on the border. And she’s working with me to strengthen our military still further, and lower your prescription drug prices. We’re making a lot of progress. But her opponent, I have to say this Martha, a guy named Mark Kelly. Even the Democrats don’t like him much. He wants to raise your taxes, open your borders, give away free healthcare to illegal immigrants, and he wants to obliterate your second amendment. He wants to get rid of it. The radical liberal Democrats from California and Massachusetts, they’re pouring money into Kelly’s campaign, because they know that he’s a rubber stamp for crying Chuck Schumer, crying Chuck, and nervous Nancy wacko Pelosi. And we’re going to have a new Speaker. But that’s why Martha has my complete and total support and endorsement, and we have to all get out there and make sure that Martha McSally… She’s a warrior. Let me tell you, you don’t know. We don’t know. People don’t know, people. This one is tough as hell, and that’s what we need. Martha McSally.

Martha McSally: (25:22)
Thank you.

  (25:22)
Thank you.

Martha McSally: (25:22)
Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you Mr. President. Welcome back to the great state of Arizona. Let’s give it up. I just want to say, I have a message for the liberal hack media in the back. Arizona is going to vote in November to keep America great and send President Trump back to the White House. And Mr. President, I want you to know, I was right there on the floor in that amazing State of the Union address that you gave. It brought tears to my eyes at many places. You were honoring our veterans. You were reuniting families. It was extraordinary. But I heard your call. You said to put a bill on your desk that’s going to lower prescription drug prices, and I’m going to introduce a bill next week to get that done, to help all Americans lower the cost of drugs. Arizona is on fire, thanks to the leadership of President Trump, with Governor Doug Ducey, and the Republicans in the Senate in the House. People are living amazing. We are getting people off the sidelines. The economy is doing so great. We have so much more to do, but there’s so much at stake. My opponent said he would vote to convict and remove you from office and remove you from the 2020 ballot. What is that all about? And then he said last week, that he would support Bernie Sanders if he’s the nominee, and his socialist agenda. So Arizona is tired of investigations. They’re tired of obstruction. They don’t want socialism. They love our freedoms. And he is… Mark Kelly is flying on Bernie Sanders’ wing. And I’m flying on your wing, President Trump, and we’re going to win in November. God bless you all. Thank you.

  (27:27)
We’ll be back. Thank you Martha. Well, she’s right. How about that Congressman Al Green? We can’t beat him, so we have to impeach him. How about that? That’s not what our… as they call them, the founders. How many times did you hear the name, the founders? That’s not what the founders had in mind. But we’re going to have a big, big election victory. We’re working to-

  (28:03)
But we’re going to have a big, big election victory. We’re working together. I don’t think the Republican party has ever been more unified than it is right now. I really don’t believe so.

  (28:13)
So whatever you can do for Martha, we need her. It’s been so incredible. Thank you very much. Thank you for everything, Martha. I appreciate it. Thank you.

  (28:27)
Together we’re building the world’s most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society anywhere. We’re inclusive. This is the Republican party. We’re inclusive.

  (28:39)
Right here in… Right? You know that. Right here in America, right here in Arizona, we’ve created 240,000 new jobs right here. Including over 60,000 new manufacturing and construction jobs here. Nobody thought it was possible. You’ve had the best year that you’ve ever had. Arizona, you’ve had the best year, the most successful year that you’ve ever had in the history of the country. It’s the best year you’ve ever had. So I’m going to take all the credit away from your governor. I don’t care.

  (29:24)
No, we have a great team with Doug and everybody else, but you’ve had the greatest year. You know that, Doug, number one year in the history of your state. It’s an incredible achievement. Incredible achievement.

  (29:38)
I don’t know, this has to be pretty good stuff on the debate stage. We’ll talk about, “Well, you had the best… In many states, the best year they’ve ever had.” Then they said, “Let’s get a new president.” I don’t think that’s going to work so easily. The country’s had the best year it’s ever had. Let’s get a new president. Let’s put in crazy Bernie. Let’s go. Crazy Bernie.

  (29:58)
Unemployment has reached its slowest rate in over 51 years, half a century. The average unemployment rate for my administration… Think of this. The average, so we’re talking about now more than three years, is the lowest for any US president in recorded history.

  (30:23)
The unemployment rate among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached record lows, lowest in history. African American youth unemployment has reached an all time low in the history of our country. African American and Hispanic American poverty has plummeted to the lowest rate ever recorded.

  (30:56)
The unemployment rate for women has reached the lowest level in 71 years. Soon to be historic. And veterans’ unemployment has dropped to a record low. We’re working with our veterans, we’re taking care of our veterans like nobody’s ever taken care of our veterans. The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached the lowest level in history. Workers without a high school diploma, you have a lot of them. They left high school. They said, “I should have finished.” They left. They can’t go back. They left. We’ve achieved the lowest unemployment rate without a diploma ever recorded in US history. Isn’t that great? They’re great numbers. Hispanic Americans right now, more than 500,000 own a home. More than 500,000 more own a home.

  (32:14)
And we’ve lifted 10 million people off of the welfare rolls. Think of that. 10 million people have come off of the welfare rolls. And happily. Not that we did anything. They have jobs and they love them. They’re making much more money and they love getting up and going for work. If they don’t like that job, they can get another one, because people are starving to get great employees right now. They’re starving to get great employees.

  (32:48)
Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. Median income. Think of this. This is such a big deal. Median household income reached the highest level in the history of our country. Under President Bush, in eight years it went to $450 more. Under President Barack Hussein Obama, under a period of eight years, it went to $975. Under president Donald J. Trump… Did you ever hear of him? In only three years, including regulation cuts and tax cuts… Because the other ones raise taxes. We cut taxes by the record amount. It went to $10, 000 per family. A record. A record.

  (34:09)
That’s why our consumer right now, our people, they’re booming with cash. That’s one of the reasons our economy is doing so much better. China had the worst year in the last 67 years. Asia’s doing poorly. Europe is doing poorly. The United States is doing great. We’re doing the best we’ve ever done. The best we’ve ever done.

  (34:38)
To lift up forgotten communities that need investment, and these are really communities that need it the most, we created Opportunity Zones. We worked with Tim Scott, the great senator from South Carolina. His idea. He came in and saw me. I said, “Let’s give it a shot.” Nothing’s worked over the years, but this has really worked. Now jobs and investment are now pouring into 168 newly designated Opportunity Zones right here in Arizona alone. From Apache to Navajo and Maricopa Counties.

  (35:19)
We’re supporting working families by fighting pay. We are doing a job with paid family leave. We’re doing something that nobody’s ever done to this extent. Reducing the cost of childcare and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 in their pocket thanks to the Republican child tax credit.

  (35:50)
Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is restoring American liberty and cutting through job, killing red tape like nobody has ever cut regulations before. We’ve ended the war on American energy, lowering utility bills, reducing prices at the pump, and eliminating our reliance on hostile foreign suppliers. For the first time, America is now energy independent. Such beautiful words. Energy independent.

  (36:36)
We fought wars. We did everything we could. We used to take the straits and everybody else benefited. We’d them clear so that other countries could take oil from the Middle East with… That nobody paid us. Now they’re starting to pay us a lot of money, folks. They took advantage of us. But we have everything we need right now. We have made such progress in the last three years with pipelines. The Keystone Pipeline, Keystone XL. I approved it. The Dakota Access Pipeline. I approved it. 48,000 jobs.

  (37:12)
We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. The worst trade deals any human being has ever seen. I said, “Who made these deals?” The worst, stupidest deals I’ve ever seen. They were good for other nations. If you like other nations, that’s great. But we’re now putting America first. It’s very simple. For years, Washington politicians took money from lobbyists, global corporations, and really, the most corrupt special interests anybody’s ever seen. To ship our jobs and our factories to other countries. We lost our taxes, we lost our workers, we lost our companies, and we did nothing about it. Now we’ve done a lot about it because companies are pouring back in.

  (38:06)
America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA, the worst deal ever made, worst trade deal ever made, and one that was almost as bad and gave China an entrance into being a rocket ship when they entered the World Trade, WTO. One of the worst deals that we participated in this. By the way, we just won $7.5 billion in a lawsuit with WTO. We weren’t winning anything.

  (38:43)
We weren’t winning anything, but they said, “I think this guy’s going to pull out.” They treated us so unfairly. We were always in the minority position. I mean, who the hell negotiated these deals? But they look at us and they say, “Look, if we’re not treated fairly, we’re gone.” All of a sudden, we’re winning all these cases. But we just won 7.5 billion. 7.5 billion. Did you know that, Doug? 7.5 billion.

  (39:12)
But under this administration, the great betrayal is over. America’s no longer for sale. America is no longer for sale. Those days are over.

  (39:28)
Two generations of politicians came and went promising to replace NAFTA. How many times have you heard we’re going to replace NAFTA? Probably the number one reason I ran for office. Are we glad I ran for office? I think so.

  (39:50)
It’s funny, I was watching the different… I find it fascinating. I’m watching the different returns coming in and I’m watching as much as I can of this stuff. I love it. We all love it. If you don’t love it, you’re not going to do it very well. The crazy New York Times, which was a dead newspaper when I ran, it was dead as a doornail. A month before I ran, Doug, I held up a New York Times, it was like what you get thrown in your face at a supermarket. It was a thing. It just flew away. There was nothing. Now it’s doing very well. But you know what? Someday we won’t be here. When we’re not, those papers are in big trouble. But this thing was a dead newspaper.

  (40:32)
But I was watching and they had an article this weekend about people that spent their own money and how they’re doing. They have Mini Mike has spent $411 million. It’s a question mark, how’s he going to… I’ll tell you how he’s going to do. He’s probably not going to get the democratic nomination. That’s how he’s going to do. But Mini Mike, $411. Then they had this idiot, Steyer. We call him impeachment Steyer. How did that work out, Steyer? He’s another beauty. The guy worked… He spent 210 million. He got one-third of 1% in Iowa. In New Hampshire he did much better. He got less than 3%. Guy’s in there for like 250 million. How did it work out, Steyer? You jerk. I never even heard of him. I never even heard of him. I turn on every time… For years, I’m turning on… Impeach him. They don’t even know why. They never say why. They don’t have any reason. Impeach the president. This guy spent a fortune on this stuff, so it worked out pretty good.

  (41:43)
But anyway, so then I go and I look. It has Mini Mike’s… Question marks. I can give you the answer, but right now they have to have a question mark, right? Then they go down and they had other people. Some of them I like. They have Ross Perot, who honestly… It was a tough day for Bush when he joined the campaign. Because Clinton didn’t win. Ross Perot took away 19% of the votes. Didn’t Clinton get 41 or 43%? Give me a break. But that’s okay. Whatever.

  (42:16)
But they had Ross Perot spent like 100 million, which is probably double if you bring it up to today’s dollars. Then they have different people. A friend of mine who ran, Steve Forbes, he ran twice. He was in for a lot. Then they had Donald Trump. Now, this is your own money. This is your own money. I said I’d spend a lot of money on my primaries. We’ll see how the hell we do. It’s amazing. Once you win, money comes in. It comes in pretty fast. What’s that all about? But so in the middle they had Trump, and then they had four or five that were behind me. Lot of money spent. Loss, loss, loss, loss, loss. But in the middle they have Donald Trump. It didn’t say 500 million, and it didn’t say 250 like this Steyer guy. It didn’t say… It said 70 million of my own money. I spent 70. It said, “Donald Trump won the presidency of the United States.” Right? We won.

  (43:32)
My father would teach me, if you could spend less and win, that’s better than spending a lot and winning. Crooked Hillary spent at least three times more than we did and lost.

Audience: (43:44)
[inaudible 00:43:54].

  (43:58)
Crooked as hell. She’s crooked as hell. We have a double-sided justice. It’s very unfair what’s going on. Very unfair. But let’s see how it all works out, folks. Let’s see how it all works out. I hope you’re going to be happy. I hope you’re going to be happy, because there are a lot of dishonest slimeballs out there. Dishonest scum. Dirty cops, a lot of dirty cops.

  (44:24)
By the way, the FBI, those guys in that are incredible. But the ones on top, they were absolute scum. What they were trying to do, if that happened to Obama, or a Democrat, or especially a liberal Democrat, they’d be in jail for 50 years and it would have taken place two years ago already. They spied on our campaign. Remember that. After they spied, we won. Then after we won, they tried to get us out of office. It’s never happened before in the history of our country, and we can’t let that happen. We can never ever excuse it. We can never let them get away with that.

  (45:21)
Never let them get away with it. But we keep our promises that we work hard and our economy is great. The last month, we ended the NAFTA… Look, you saw it. NAFTA catastrophe. That’s what it was. We ended that catastrophe. Again, I really ran because of NAFTA. I said, “How stupid.” All over the place. In your state, but you go to New England, empty factories, empty buildings. Still you have empty buildings. We lost so much. We lost 60,000 factories and plants. I signed that brand new, beautiful US-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law.

  (45:59)
The USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, and ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Arizona. By the way, for people with the small farms and small businesses, if you love your children, you can now leave your companies, you can leave your farm, you can leave your ranch to your children, and you don’t have to to pay, they don’t pay a death tax. They don’t pay an inheritance tax. A big deal. That’s a big deal. So if you love your children, it’s good. If you don’t love your children, it doesn’t matter. Don’t leave it to them, if you don’t love. If your children are no good to you, don’t give them anything. Let them go out and work like hell. No, if you love…

  (46:53)
Does anybody in this incredible audience… Man, this is a big building. Does anybody not love their children? Anybody? Do I have a hand? Do I have a… There’s a hand. You’ve got to be kidding. You’ve got to be kidding. So then you don’t care about the tax. Okay, don’t worry about it. He says, “No, I don’t care about that one.” Well, that’s good. You look like a nice guy too. He’s tough. You’d love to be his kid, wouldn’t you?

  (47:23)
But I also took the strongest ever action to confront China’s massive theft of American jobs. Our strategy worked. Last month, we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, and boost American exports. China will invest $250 billion a year into the United States and buy our products and create jobs. Nothing like that has ever happened before. After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. That’s the way we want it. We are finally putting our country first. We are putting America first.

  (48:25)
On no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than immigration. You know it almost better than anybody. Anybody, Doug. You know it better than anybody, what they’ve done on your border, but we’re stopping that border. That border is clogged, and we’ve started the big wall right in Arizona. We build a lot of wall. That’s a big one. That’s a big one. Top of the line.

  (48:50)
Before I came into office, the far left’s policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country, poisoning our children. Including, as you know very well right here in Arizona, Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the wellbeing of American citizens. They want to let anyone from around the world simply walk across the border. Then they want to give them a lifetime of free welfare, healthcare, everything. They want to give them everything. For a long period of time, they were treated… You know this before I came. They were treated far better than our veterans were treated. Now our veterans are treated great. True.

  (49:46)
Illegal immigration costs Arizona taxpayers more than $2 billion every year. Two billion you’re paying. Nearly 20% of Arizona’s annual budget in general funds goes toward this big problem.

  (50:02)
For the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild our cities all throughout America, which is what we should be doing. Under my administration, we are finally taking care of our own citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who follow our laws, pay their taxes, and are entitled to a government that protects their families and their communities.

  (50:41)
Every day, Democrats’ open borders policies are harming and killing innocent lives. In Arizona alone last year, ICE officers arrested over 4,500 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery, rape, and murder.

  (51:04)
Right here in Phoenix, an illegal alien chased a man through a parking lot and shot him in cold blood, then walked over to the victim and shot him four more times right in the face as he laid dying in the street. This savage animal had previously been deported after serving six years in prison. He was in prison six years. He was there six years and nobody wants to talk about it. They want to protect them.

  (51:33)
Last year in Tucson, another illegal alien was sentenced to 10 years for repeatedly raping a vulnerable young woman. Yet left wing politicians oppose all detention of illegal aliens, even convicted criminals, and they support deadly sanctuary cities that release these criminal aliens directly into America’s communities. Thankfully, Arizona has banned sanctuary cities. With a Republican majority in Congress, we will ban them in every state in America.

  (52:21)
I’ll tell you what, in California… I just left California. I started off with a speech in Nevada at 7:30 in the morning. I then went to California, made two speeches. I then went someplace else. I said, “Am I finished?” No, you’ve got to go to Arizona tonight and speak in front of like 25,000 people. I said, “That’s okay. That’s okay.” I said, “That’s okay.” No, I said, “That’s okay,” because I love this unbelievable energy in this crowd. But you know what? Honestly, there’s tremendous energy in our nation. There’s tremendous energy in our nation. Greatest nation in the world.

  (53:05)
Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings for eight straight months in a row, which will soon be a record. Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring. The month of January saw the fewest illegal border crossings in two years. And we’ve ended catch and release, a horrible Democrat policy that we got terminated.

  (53:39)
Border patrol, great people, have seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics ever recorded in the history of our country this year. We’ve deported record numbers of gang members, including the worst gang of all, MS-13. Thousands and thousands of people have been thrown the hell out of our country.

  (54:06)
We’ve done more to secure the border than any administration in history. We’re building the wall, as I said, faster than ever. It will soon be almost one new mile a day. We’re looking for that.

  (54:27)
Washington Democrats have never been more extreme, taking cues from crazy Bernie Sanders. How’s he doing tonight? 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie’s healthcare takeover of the world. Think of this, 180 million Americans are going to lose healthcare coverage under this plan. But if you don’t mind, I’m not going to criticize it tonight. Let them keep going and I’ll start talking about it about two weeks out from the election. Okay? Because I don’t want him to change. Please don’t change.

  (55:06)
Same with the Green New Deal. I don’t want to talk about it, Doug, tonight. I don’t want to talk about it.

  (55:11)
I came up with the name Pocahontas. Too early. But fortunately, she’s self-destructed anyway. Did you ever see a phony like that? She’s a phony. She lost because she couldn’t keep it straight on her own heritage. She said she was an Indian. I said, ” I have more Indian blood in me than you have, and I have none.” She said, “Oh,” and she panicked. She panicked, and she had a test. You know the result, 1/124th. I think I win the bet. Somewhere along the line, I think I win.

  (55:53)
No, she… I did it too early. I would have saved it, but I guess it was effective. She’s essentially gone-zo, so… One of those things. While the socialist Democrats are try-

  (56:03)
… one of those things. While the socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare and your social security, my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare. And that’s what we’re getting. That’s right.

  (56:21)
One of the big secrets. The Democrats won’t let us say it. They want to keep that as quiet as possible. Look what they gave you, the worst healthcare. And what we’ve done, we’ve gotten rid of things that nobody could believe that was so bad for you. Everybody was happy with defending your right to keep your doctor and plan of your choice. We’re making healthcare better and much, much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the last five years before I took office, we are now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive than they were, and it’s better healthcare. A lot of people don’t know this. People don’t know this. They think that’s their issue. It’s not. They failed on healthcare. We’re protecting people with preexisting conditions, and we always will. And by the way, we’re trying to get rid of Obamacare, but we’re managing it incredibly, but we’re trying to get rid so we can give you a great healthcare plan and protect preexisting conditions. Remember that. We’re trying to get rid of it, but while we’re having it, we’re managing it really much better than they did. Remember they built the $5 billion website? Remember that? It was supposed to cost $5 million. It cost $5 billion. $5 billion. I mean, you could get a kid out of high school.

  (57:49)
I have a son. He’s a young boy, 13. He uses a computer. He could have given them a healthcare site. I would say he would have charged them $100, Barron Trump, and it would’ve worked. He’s so good. “Hi dad. How you doing, dad? How’s it going?” Bing, bing, bong. I said, “Don’t play with that while you’re talking to me.” “What’s going on, dad?” These kids are incredible, right? The kids, they make us look like babies with that. But he could have given you a great site for about $2. They spent $5 billion on a site that never worked. By the way, speaking of that, how did they do with their vote count in Iowa?

  (58:28)
And I hear, I hear, I don’t want to say it. I don’t want to jinx them because, of course, I want them to do well, but I do. We don’t have anything. Nobody’s running against us in so many states. It’s sort of nice. We can save the thunder, right? But I hear that in Nevada. I’m hearing bad things about their vote count. I hear a lot of bad things are happening, like they don’t know what the hell they’re doing. I turned on the other night, Iowa, I wanted to see … And by the way, we set a record in the history of Iowa. We had more votes than anybody’s ever had as an incumbent president. Same thing in New Hampshire. It’s a good sign. It’s a good sign. By a lot. By the way, by a lot.

  (59:17)
But I’m hearing that, and I hope this isn’t the case because I’d like to find out who the hell won. We still don’t know who won in Iowa. I heard coming over here they’re still working on the count. No, no, no. He said, “You won.” Yeah, I think we did win. I think we did. Very good. That’s very good. I have to thank you, that one. That’s very good. No, we did win. Look, we are winning. We’re winning big. We have fake polls out there. These guys do fake polls. They are fake polls.

  (59:49)
I had a poll. It’s just like it was in 2016. I’d hear these polls. I’d hear women didn’t like me, and I did great with women. I hear everyone didn’t like me. Nobody liked me. Nobody liked me. And then we won. Thank you, women. Nobody liked me 2016. No, no, I hear that. Remember, women didn’t like him, and at the end of that he did great with women. He did great with this. He did great with everybody. We did great with everybody. Remember, 306 to 223. That’s a slaughter. That’s a slaughter. Remember, they said he cannot get, they used the word path. There is no path, right, to 270?

  (01:00:35)
I was at 269 if I did great, but they said there’s no chance. But I was at 269, so I went to Maine. I love Maine. I went to Maine. Maine’s cut in half. And one Maine has one. I went there four or five times. People are great. I won it. And they were right. There is no path to 270, but there was a path to 306. These people. These people. There is no path. That’s right, Doug. They said there is no path, the fake news media. “There is no path for Donald Trump.” And then they said the evening of the election, “It’s going to be a really short night for Donald Trump. Thank God, we got rid of this guy.”

  (01:01:24)
Because they did the exit polls going out, right? And I was even told, but a lot of people didn’t want to talk about it. The highest number in history of people that said very nasty language, but I’m not going to use that name because you’ll kill me if I use it. So I won’t use it. It’s a much better story if I use it because that’s the truth. That’s what they said. “How did you vote?” Usually, they say, “I voted for Clinton,” or, “I voted for Trump.” Right? “How’d you vote?” “None of your business.” See, I’m being nice, right? I’ll keep it that way because otherwise we’ll ruin the whole evening. They’ll say, “His language,” right? Even this tough guy in the front says, “I agree.” “How did you vote?” “No, I don’t want to tell you.” “How did you vote?” “None of your damn business. I’m not going to tell you.” “How did you vote?” “I’m not … ”

  (01:02:08)
And it was like this massive number, right? Massive. So everybody, they just didn’t count that. So they said numbers are looking unbelievably well for crooked Hillary Clinton. They’re looking unbelievable. This is going to be a very short evening for Donald Trump. We finally will be rid of this guy. And then the numbers started coming in. The numbers started coming in, and it started with the great state of Florida. Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. And then that beautiful convention center, the most beautiful stage I’ve ever seen.

  (01:02:57)
And they knew something was going on because they didn’t pay the final payment for the fireworks two weeks before. Right? In fact, I went to the fireworks company, and I said, “I’ll give you five cents on the dollar for your fireworks,” even though they were no way near where my area was. We were at a hotel in Midtown. We liked the location better than where she chose, but they built the most … we remember that beautiful stage.

  (01:03:23)
It was shaped like the United States of America. And by the end, it didn’t look too good. Did you ever see more unhappy people? So they go, “Donald Trump has won the great state of Florida. They go, “Whoa, whoa, whoa.” They outspent me like five to one. Only negative ads. They’re all negative. So by the time people got into the voters booth, they only knew one thing. She hated Donald Trump, but they said, “What the hell does she stand for? What does she do?” Every ad was a negative ad. So it tells you negative ads, at least against me, aren’t so good. They can be effective. But I think they spent like $ 2 billion on negative ads. Everything was negative. So nobody knew what the hell she spent.

  (01:04:05)
You know, her husband said she was going to lose. Her husband’s a professional. Her husband said, “You better go to Michigan because I was there and they got a Trump/Pence sign on every lawn I’ve ever seen. You better go to Wisconsin, Hillary. You better go to Wisconsin.” She said, “No, we haven’t lost Wisconsin in 36 years”. “No, no, Hillary, you got to go there. I’m telling you, I don’t like what I saw.” “No, what do you know?” He’s a professional politician. She wasn’t. It’s one of those little problems in life. So then it came in, and then we won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. Right? And we were leading Pennsylvania by so much that if I lost, remember at 2% of the vote left, if I lost every single vote, I win by a lot.

  (01:04:54)
They refused, the fake news refused to call it. I kept saying, “We won Pennsylvania. Why don’t they call it?” It was very late in the evening when they called it because they are fake, they’re crooked. They are fake. And I said, “Why don’t they call Pennsylvania?” But some beautiful things happened. And by the way, Ohio, we won by one of the largest margins ever. The great, great, great state of Ohio. Remember? Remember, they used to say a year before the election, they said, “Well, nobody can win. Nobody, unless you win the great state of Ohio.” And we won the great state of Ohio, and we won it big. We knew we were going to win it. And now we’re up a lot more than we were up even then, because you know why? We’re bringing back jobs. We’re bringing back factories. Everybody’s working. Nobody’s ever had a better year than we’ve been having. And we’ve been doing it for a long time, right? Almost from the beginning.

  (01:05:57)
And don’t let them try and take credit, because if they came in, we would have ended up in a massive recession or worse, the D word, depression. We would have been, because they were going to put more and more and more regulations on. And I’ll tell you, maybe bigger than even the tax cuts, and I did it sooner, were the regulation cuts. We freed up our nation to go back to work. True.

  (01:06:28)
So then we won Wisconsin, and then we won Michigan because those companies, now they’re pouring back in. The auto companies are pouring back in, and Wisconsin’s doing great with the farmers that Canada was taking. You know, Canada was charging our farmers 287% tariffs for dairy products. Okay? So what happens is this, we’re working on healthcare. We’re fighting to stop surprise medical billing. I just signed an executive order imposing price transparency because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very fast. We’ve approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the brand drugs, but they cost a tiny fraction. We’ve totally transformed veteran’s healthcare, including getting long-sought VA choice and VA accountability, which they said could not be done. And we passed the spectacular right to try. So if you’re in trouble, and I hope nobody in this massive arena’s in trouble, but if you’re in trouble, you can go and get whatever the new drug or whatever where we have the best doctors, best hospital, best labs. You get it. And the luck we are having, we are saving so many lives. It’s incredible what’s happening. People would go to Europe. They’d go to Asia. If they had no money, they’d go home and die. Now they have the right to use our drugs before they’re approved. Think of that. Before they’re approved. And we’re very importantly combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths. The overdose deaths have declined for the first time in 34 years, and life expectancy is rising again in our nation.

  (01:08:32)
We’ve launched bold new initiatives combating kidney disease and Alzheimer’s disease. We’re making tremendous progress, and we’re pursuing new advances in neo-medical research. Think of that, neonatal research, the numbers are incredible. What’s happened is incredible, to care for America’s youngest patients and breaking all records in doing so. All of the radical Democrats in the presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the very moment of birth. That is why in my State of the Union, I asked Congress to prohibit late-term abortion of babies because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total destruction of your Second Amendment. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, the Second Amendment and the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community, and every walk of life. We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy, and enthusiasm. We have tremendous energy. Tremendous energy.

  (01:10:35)
Everybody says to me, “Where do you get the energy?” Because I love what we’re doing. I see the results, and they’re happening faster than you even think. You see the numbers. They’re happening faster than you would even think. We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement. We are the big tent. We are the big party. We are the party with big ideas for the future. Republicans are fighting for school choice because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school. Right? Right? To keep our community safer and give former prisoners a second chance at life. There’s been nothing like this. I passed criminal justice reform, not the Democrats. I did it with the Republicans, and this could not have been done by anybody but me and the Republican party. The Democrats did not do it. They could never have done it.

  (01:11:50)
To uphold the rule of law, we have confirmed 218 federal judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. This is a record. And as you know, I have nominated, and we have confirmed, two great new Supreme Court Justices: Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. We have invested $2.2 trillion to rebuild the United States military, including nearly $200 million for Marine Corps Air Station Yuma. Right? I recognized Israel as the true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. We recognize Israel sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’ve been trying to get it for 52 years. And for years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. You saw that. They apologized. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Arizona.

  (01:13:25)
At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation. It is. This election is so important. It’s the survival of our nation. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020. You’re the forgotten people no more. Right? No deplorables, right? No deplorables. Who knew that was going to turn out to be such a disaster? But you know, she used the worst word. What was the word she used? Irredeemables, right? I thought that was the problem. No, it was deplorable. So what the hell do I know about politics? She said, “You’re irredeemable and deplorable.” I said, “Oh, that irredeemable’s terrible.” The next day people are showing up. Women, “I’m a deplorable.” Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp, which is vicious, horrible, ugly, and evil. Much worse than I thought. But we’re getting there and not pleasant. A bunch of really bad people, very dishonest people. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. Together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. We will continue to enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words and phrase. I love the phrase, Made in the USA. Made in the USA.

  (01:15:37)
We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within now nine years. We started a year ago. Can you imagine that? We’re doing that, and it’s going to happen. Who would have thought we could have done that? We will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant our flag on Mars. We will defend privacy, free speech, and you know this. You know it’s under siege, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will defend it. It’s under siege. It’s under siege. You see it in Virginia. They want to take away the guns. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one beautiful America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.

  (01:16:59)
we stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto In God We Trust. From Tucson to Tombstone, right? Do you agree? You agree, right? Look at him. He’s agreeing, this guy.

Speaker 1: (01:18:01)
No more censorship.

  (01:18:03)
He’s agreeing. No more censorship is right. No more evil. No more crimes. You’re right. From Yuma to Mesa and from Flagstaff to right here in Phoenix, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded American Patriots who poured their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our freedom. Arizona was founded by pioneers and prospectors, great prospectors, cowboys and miners and ranchers who tamed the wilderness, braved the blazing sun, and it is hot here. I’ve been here during the summer. I want to tell you, it’s seriously hot. Of course, didn’t they say that President Clinton, when he went on the back of the plane was here to play golf, it was 121 degrees that day? I don’t know about that. I don’t know about that. What do you think he was doing with the Attorney General? I remember he said, “Oh, I just happened to see she was … I was here to play golf. It was 120 degrees out.” I don’t know.

  (01:19:11)
A lot of crooked stuff went on. I wonder what they talked about. I’m sure it wasn’t that she would become a Supreme Court Justice. I’m sure it wasn’t that they were going to extend her tenure as Attorney General. She was a real beauty. I’m sure it wasn’t. I’m sure it was nothing. They spent 45 minutes on the plane talking about golf and their grandchildren. Right? Can’t let it happen, folks. Can’t let it happen. We can’t let it happen. You fought the battles and helped make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth, and we are making it greater every single day than ever before. Great, great, great citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people, with your help, your devotion and with your drive. We are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. Do you like winning? Because not very long ago you weren’t winning, and I don’t want you … I told this a few times during the campaign. Haven’t used it in a long time, but I don’t want you going to your great governor. He’s a great governor, Doug Ducey. I don’t want you going to your governor saying, “Governor, governor, we just can’t stand winning so much. Please go see the president in the oval office. Governor, the people of Arizona don’t want to keep on winning. It’s too much governor. It’s not even fair to the rest of the planet. Please tell him, Governor Ducey, please tell him, ‘President, the people of Arizona have won too much. We don’t want to keep on winning.'” And I’ll look at Doug Ducey, and I’ll say, “Doug, I’ve a lot of respect for you, Doug. You won by 16 points. That means a lot. But Doug, I don’t care what you say. We’re going to keep on winning, and we’re going to win like never before. And the people of Arizona are going to love it.”

  (01:21:44)
And he’s going to say, “Thank you, Mr. President. I’m going back home.” The fact is, we are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Arizona, the best is yet to come. That’s right. Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you very much. Thank you, Arizona. Thank you. (singing)



  (00:24)
I worked so hard for this state. I worked so hard. You just got two of the greatest trade deals, and add Japan to it, by the way. Let’s make it three, 40 billion from Japan, USMCA, all done. China, all done for the farmers. It’s done, that I can tell you. You’re going to have to get bigger tractors and a hell of a lot more land. You’ve got to produce a lot of product. I don’t know if you can, but, hello Des Moines. It’s great to be with you. I’m thrilled to be back in American heartland with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots. Great people. This November we’re going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats that are right down the street.

  (01:25)
I mean, I don’t even know. I just saw, New York Times, can you believe? Failing New York Times… When we leave in 10, 14, 18, 22 years from now, the New York Times will be out of business and so will a lot of others. But, did you see they did a New York Times poll, I think, and Sienna, Sienna, New York Times of Iowa, and they have me pitted against every one of the Socialists, and we’re winning by a lot. Everyone. We’re beating them all. We’re beating them all. We’re beating them all. We’re beating them like they haven’t been beaten before. You know all the noises about their crazy debates, nobody’s watching their debates, but it’s all about their debates. They don’t care about the farmer. Everything out here, they love Trump, and you should love Trump with what I’ve done.

  (02:26)
So, we’re going to win the great state of Iowa and it’s going to be a historic landslide. If we don’t win, your farms are going to hell. I can tell you right now. Sell, sell, they’ll be saying “Sell.” No, we love the farmers, and we love the ranchers, and we love the manufacturers, frankly. You got plenty of that too in this state. The great state, and you have a great governor, by the way. You have a great governor.

  (03:02)
But every day we’re achieving extraordinary victories for the citizens of the Hawkeye State. The Iowa unemployment rate has reached an all time low in history. That’s not bad. That’s not bad. Oh, let’s vote for Pocahontas. Let’s vote for Bernie. Let’s vote for sleepy Joe. He’s falling asleep. Joe, Joe, Joe. He always gets the name wrong. How many times has he missed it? He’s in Iowa. He says, “Great to be in the great state of Ohio.” They say, “Joe, you’re in Iowa.” You can’t do that. No matter how great you speak. If you’re Winston Churchill, if you make that mistake at the beginning of your speech, it’s over. You might as well just wrap it up. There’s the fake news. They would just absolutely destroy you. They would absolutely destroy you.

  (04:06)
You can’t do that. You can’t do that, Joe, sleepy Joe, but you have these guys. You have these people. How about Buttigieg? Buttigieg. They call him mayor Pete. You know why? Because nobody can pronounce his name. Nobody has any idea. Buttigieg. They say, “Say edge edge.” He presides over a city that’s failed. It’s doing so badly, in a state that’s having the greatest year they’ve ever had, and they have a great governor also, and they had a great governor. You just heard from him, right? The great state of Indiana, so I don’t see that one. Go down the line. We have some people. Let’s not talk about them. What happened to mini Mike? Where is he? He’s not running. He’s skipping four or five states. Mini Mike. I’ve had him up to here.

  (05:05)
More people are working right now in Iowa than ever before. Now think of it. Think of it. Yesterday we replaced a NAFTA disaster with the incredible brand new U.S. Mexico Canada Agreement. The USMCA, you know when you have a hard time with that one, memory is a great thing. I’ve always had a great memory for whatever reason, but memory is a great thing. Having a great memory, but sometimes you take little clues. USMCA. Thank you, darling. I love you, too. Where is that person up? Look at that. Wow. What a good, strong voice.

  (06:11)
But you know how you remember it? The song I just walked in on. They’re playing the song YMCA. So, when you’re having a hard time, gee, what’s U-S, just think of the song YMCA, and you’ll remember it, USMCA. It’s a massive win for Iowa farmers and workers of all kinds. It’s a massive win and it creates some fairness with Canada. It creates fairness with Mexico. Probably the biggest reason that I ran was the unfair trade that I’ve seen, and one after one, China, Mexico, Canada, Japan, South Korea, we’ve made all these deals, and we have plenty left over. Plenty left over. Europe, Europe, Europe is next. I wanted to finish China before we started on Europe. I like to do them one at a time, one at a time. I’m a very organized person.

  (07:15)
But weeks ago we also signed a terrific new trade agreement with China that will boost American agriculture by $50 billion every year, and many other businesses like manufacturing, banking, finance, overall $250 billion, and you know with the farmers, because I have a place in my heart for the farmers big. I went and I saw Ambassador Lighthizer’s in charge, he’s fantastic. I said, “What are you doing? We’re getting ready for the final deal. What are you doing?” He said, “I’m putting in $20 billion.” Because I asked Sonny Perdue. He’s great. You know who he is, right? Secretary of Agriculture. I said, “Sonny, what’s the biggest number that China’s ever done with the farmers?” He said, “Sir, $16 billion last year. $16 billion.” This was two years ago. I said, “So, $16 billion is the biggest,” because you know, they targeted you, and now we’re friends with China.

  (08:10)
In fact, maybe we’ve never had a better relationship and were working with them very closely on the Coronavirus. We’re working with them very, very closely. We only have five people. Hopefully everything’s going to be great. They have somewhat of a problem, but hopefully it’s all going to be great. But, we’re working with China just so you know, and other countries very, very closely, so it doesn’t get out of hand, but it’s something that we have to be very, very careful with, right? We have to be very careful.

  (08:42)
But I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, I said, “Sonny, what’s the number?” 16 and 12 the year before, and you were targeted. I don’t blame China. Look, they’re smart. They’re negotiators. They targeted Trump states. Where do they love Trump? They love him in Iowa. They love him in Nebraska. They love him in all these states. They love him in Wisconsin. They love him. We won Wisconsin. They like him and Wisconsin, and a lot of the farm states, and they targeted. The farmers came to see me and they said, “Sir, you have to do what’s right.” When the fake news would interview farmers, the farmers would say, “No, no, President Trump is doing the right thing. It should have been done years ago. Should’ve been done years and years ago.” But you couldn’t have made it because there was too much money, $16 billion. So, what I did is I put a 25% tariff on everything coming in from China, $250 billion, and then more tariffs on things beyond the $250 billion market. We took in billions, and billions, and billions of dollars. We still are, and then what happened? When I heard about the farmers and I saw the farmers, they were in the White House. They came to see me. I had 36 farmers and I said, “I’m going to give you.” They said, “Sir, we don’t want anything.” I said, “What do you mean you don’t want anything? I’ve never heard that before.” Everybody wants money. They want every. They said, “We just want a level playing field.” I never forgot it. They said, “We don’t want anything. We just want a level playing field, and we’ve been treated badly for years, for years.”

  (10:24)
I said, “Well, you haven’t been given a level playing field for many, many years, for decades. You haven’t been given a level playing field. We’re going to give you the levelest field that you ever had. But, but in the meantime, I’m going to give you $12 billion, out of these tens of billions that we’re collecting.” Don’t worry. We had plenty of left over, because we never got 25 cents from China. China took from us. We didn’t take from China, right? I said, “I’m going to give you $12 billion for the year before, and I’m going to give you $16 billion for this year.” That was last year for this year. So, they got, meaning you, a lot of you in this audience, got $12 billion, and you got 16, so you got $28 billion over that short period of time, and you were able to actually, in some cases, I guess thrive. I told Sonny, “I want to take care of the small farmer too, not just the big monsters. I want to take care of everyone, everyone.”

  (11:21)
But, I never forgot when CNN fake news and all these people, they go around interviewing the farmers. They could never find anyone saying bad about Trump. They’d go into diners. “What do you think about Trump? Isn’t it a terrible what he’s doing with the trade?” The farmer would say, “No, he’s doing what should have been done 20 years ago.” Now, you people are going to make so much money. You’re not going to do just, you know what? Just relax. Take it easy. Put it away. Enjoy your life. But you’re going to make a lot of money. You’re going to make a lot of money. Again, we have never had, because they respect us now, they didn’t respect us. We have never had a better relationship with China than we do right now. It’s a beautiful story. They respect us. The whole world respects us now. We’re respected again. America is respected again. Okay?

  (12:25)
We’re fighting for products made in America and grown right here in this great, great state of Iowa. To keep America safe, we have fully rebuilt the United States military. It’s now stronger, more powerful, more lethal than ever before. We have all brand new equipment and it was all built in the USA. Thanks to the courage of American heroes, the ISIS caliphate has been totally destroyed and its founder and leader, the animal known as al-Baghdadi is dead.

  (13:17)
Crazy Nancy Pelosi said, “Don’t call him an animal. He’s a human being.” No, he’s an animal. He’s an animal. Two weeks ago, at my direction, the United States military delivered another historic win for American justice. Our brave warriors launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world’s number one terrorist, Qasem Soleimani. Qasem Soleimani. He was the mastermind of the road side bomb. He loved roadside bombs. When you see your friends and great soldiers of our country and other countries, frankly, walking around, they don’t have legs, they don’t have arms in some cases. Some cases they don’t have both. You see them walking around, or riding around, or the most brave people, these people have the greatest attitude. I go to Walter Reed and I see him and the young man his legs were blown off. “How you doing?” “Sir, I want to get back. I want to get back, sir.” I’ll tell you, the spirit of these people, it may even top the farmers. It may even top the farmers, which is pretty good.

  (14:31)
But he was responsible, more than anybody else, 90% they say of these roadside bombs sent to fight us, he was responsible and he took a hard hit. He took a very hard hit. He was responsible for murdering and maiming thousands and thousands of Americans, and hundreds of thousands of other people. Not acceptable. Soleimani was actively planning new attacks, but we ended his bloody rampage forever.

  (15:12)
Yet, Washington Democrats, true, like crazy Bernie and Nancy Pelosi, opposed our decision to eliminate Soleimani, and to save American lives. That had a tremendous impact. While we’re proudly creating jobs and killing terrorists, Congressional Democrats are consumed with partisan rage, and obsessed with a deranged witch hunt hoax. You know, we’re having probably the best years that we’ve ever had in the history of our country, and I just got impeached. Can you believe these people? I got impeached. They impeached Trump. The best trade deals, the strongest military, I took care of the vets. We got choice. We got accountability for the vets, accountability. We got all these things and they impeach your President. No, that’s not going to work. Watch, just watch.

  (16:16)
They want to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy, and overthrow the entire system of government. That’s not happening, I can tell you that. Washington Democrats have spent the last three years trying to overturn the last election. Why am I not worried? I should worried. Remember Nixon, it was like a dark period, right? It’s a very dark period. It was like oh, you think about it. Right? With Clinton it was not good. They say that with Johnson, it was a long time ago, none of us remember, but they say it was a very dark period. This is a happy period for us. It’s a happy period. It’s a happy period because we call this impeachment light. This is light.

  (17:25)
Crazy Schiff. Shifty Schiff. He’s a sick puppy. He’s a sick puppy. But, you know what? Today you saw it, I hit my highest poll numbers since I got elected because the American people, and frankly, people all over the world, know it’s a hoax. They understand it. They know it’s a hoax, and we have a great party, the Republican party. They know what’s going on. They know what’s going on and they’re going to treat us very fairly. But, the Democrats are trying to overturn the last election. We will make sure that they face another crushing defeat in 2020.

  (18:14)
November 3, November 3, mark it off. November 3, mark it off. Was that a great day? 2016 November. Remember? He’s not going to do well with this group. I did well. He’s not going to do well with that group. I won that group. He’s not going to do well here or there. Even the exit polls, they took it right up. You know what they didn’t know about the exit polls? When people are leaving, they’re always very accurate. People leave. “Who you voted for?” “I voted for Trump.” “Who you voted for?” “I voted for crooked Hillary. I don’t care that she’s a stone cold crook. I’m voting for her.” Who are you voting for? I’m voting for Trump, or Clinton, or Trump. They’re always very accurate, but this time something happened.

Speaker 1: (19:02)
Hillary for prison.

  (19:03)
Many people, many… I like that idea. I like it. I like it. Wouldn’t we like to run against her. who’s tougher? Her, crazy Bernie, Biden, Buttigieg? Who would be the closest? Buttigieg. I don’t know. Maybe we take another crack at crazy Hillary. Would that be okay? She was so easy. Remember that speech so innocently given talking about deplorables. Remember? Remember deplorables? But you know the only thing I didn’t understand, I said, “That’s terrible.” But she said another word that was worse. Irredeemables. I said, “Boy,” shows you how good I am at politics, I said, “She’s in trouble. She said our people are irredeemable.” To me that was worse. Well, it wasn’t that word that caught on. It was deplorable. The next day I’m speaking, and women are walking around, I’m deplorable. Everyone’s got deplorable. I say, “I think she made a bad speech last night.” But irredeemable, remember? She called them deplorable and irredeemable, and me being so brilliant, I said, “I think that irredeemables going to get her.” No, deplorable got her. A lot her like lack of ability.

  (20:35)
Together we are going to win back the House. We are going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep that beautiful, gorgeous, incredible White House. People don’t realize this is a lot of work. I just left Michigan, and Michigan is booming now because of me, meaning, my people. I say to Prime Minister Abe, he’s a friend of mine, “Shinzo,” Japan, “You got to do something. You got these massive deficits for our country. You got to open up plants in Michigan fast, Shinzo. Fast. You’ve got to do it.” “Yes, I will do it.” He’ll do it, and he’s doing it. Countries are coming in from all over the world. They’re going to Michigan. They’re coming to Iowa. They’re buying your stuff again, like crazy, like crazy.

  (21:37)
They’re going to Ohio. They’re going to Pennsylvania. They’re going to South Carolina. They’re going to North Carolina. They’re going to Florida. They’re coming in like never before. They’re all coming back. I ran on the issue trade. I ran on a lot of different issues, but trade was one of them. That was so big. To me, it was so big. I used to say, how do we allow these companies to close, fire everybody, go to another country? Mexico, wherever it may be, make product, sell the product into our country, pay no tax. Who the hell would allow this to happen? Who would allow to happen?

  (22:16)
It’s like in South Korea. I went to him, I said, “Listen, your deal is no good. We have to make a new deal.” South Korea, we’re protecting them all, all these different things. I said, “Number one, you’ve got to pay us more.” They agreed to. They gave us $500 million a year more. They said, “But nobody has ever asked.” They gave us 500. That’s nothing compared to what they have to do. That’s okay. That’s okay. They’ll pay more. But you know, they made a trade deal with the United States. Hillary Clinton was in charge of the deal, right? She said it’s going to produce 250,000 jobs, and she was right. 250,000. You know who it was for? For South Korea, not for us, it was for South Korea. So, we renegotiated the deal, if I have your permission, we renegotiated the deal and now we have a good deal with South Korea, okay?

  (23:04)
This deal is going to produce, remember… This deal is going to produce 250,000 jobs for South Korea. She didn’t lie. Can’t say she lied. She lies about a lot of other things, but she didn’t lie. How is she taking her defeat? Okay? I think so. Remember the debate? Do you promise if you lose that you will support the winner and I sort of, I didn’t exactly say yes. I didn’t say yes, in all fairness, but I got sort of like six the 68% there. But she said, “See he won’t.” She’s the one that doesn’t do it. No, no, I feel badly because it’s too late for her to get in. I kept hoping, but I think, honestly I think that sleepy Joe, crazy Bernie, I don’t even want to put Buttigieg in, but I think they’d actually be tougher than her.

  (24:07)
During this campaign season, the good people of Iowa have had a front row seat to the lunacy and the madness of the totally sick left. This is a radical left people that we’re dealing with. Today’s Democrat party, I don’t say Democratic party, it sounds so much better in a speech, right? Democratic party, the Democrat, but that’s not their name. It’s called the Democrat party. You know some people aren’t allowed to say the Democrat party because it doesn’t sound good. I don’t even like it. I don’t like the way it sounds in this speech, but I’m going to say it because I’m not looking to have them look good.

  (24:42)
Today’s Democrat party is run by left wing extremists who want to massively raise your taxes, increase regulations, cancel your health plans, raid Medicare, shut down American energy, destroy your social security, they will destroy your social security, eliminate religious liberty, punish free speech, confiscate your guns, abolish your borders, and indoctrinate America’s children with hateful, left-wing ideology. Other than that, they’re okay. Other than that, they’re fine people. In short, this election is a choice between American freedom and Democratic socialism, and in some cases, in my opinion, it’s worse than Socialism. Socialism’s a kind word by comparison. The Democrats will lose because America will never be a socialist country. We can’t. They’re all watching tonight. They’re sitting in their hotel room, little hotels right down the street, and they’re looking at this crowd. The press never talks about my crowds. Did you see in New Jersey a couple of nights ago? We had signups for 175,000 people. We had an arena that held about 9,000 people. We could have sold it out 15 times. Okay? They don’t talk about that. You know what they talk about? They said Donald Trump who spoke before a nice crowd. If Bernie or sleepy Joe has, I mean Joe had a crowd that was so small the other day that they set up a round table. No, it’s true. No, they were in a gymnasium. There were in a gymnasium, and they set up a round table, and people that went there to hear his speech are now being asked, “What do you think of socialism?” They just said, “I just want to be here to watch his speech.” They set up a round-

  (27:03)
They just said, “I just want to be here to watch a speech.” They set up a round table because the crowd was so small, and then they’ll say, “It was a brilliant round table. It was wonderful.” They never mention crowds. They never mention crowds. They never mention anything. I’ll tell you, U.S.M.C.A, The biggest trade deal ever signed in the history of the world. Okay? It is, wait. It barely got any mention. We signed it. It barely got any mention. They talk about the impeachment hoax. They talk about all the other stuff, but the trade deal, that is going to change our country. It’s going to bring growth. Wait until you see, toward the end of next year, the growth will be astronomical because of the China Trade Deal, the U.S.M.C.A, Japan, South Korea, Europe, when that happens. It will happen because they have no choice. They have no choice.

  (27:55)
But in the papers, and on the fake news cable shows, and the regular, look, NBC is horrible, the NBC Nightly News, it’s terrible. The good news is people don’t watch it like they used to, because they don’t believe in it. They don’t believe in it. And as Sean Hannity would say, MSDNC, you know what MSDNC is, right, so bad. CNN, total fake stuff. Oops, their camera just went off. Look! The camera just went off! CNN!

  (28:23)
Their camera just went off. That always happens whenever I say CNN, their camera goes off.

  (28:46)
But Americans, across the political spectrum, were disgusted by the Washington Democrats, the partisan hoaxes, the witch hunts, the con jobs. It’s all a con job. And so, they don’t love our country, I swear they don’t. You look at Nancy Pelosi’s district in San Francisco. It was so beautiful, and now it’s a disgrace, being watched all over the world. Needles all over the place, everything else all over the place. I’m not going to get into it, washing down into the ocean, washing down onto their beaches, people living in tents if they’re lucky. I mean you never saw anything, living on their most important entryways into what was a great city, San Francisco. What’s happened? And all she does is work on the hoax and work on all of the stuff.

  (29:38)
Really, these people are very, very bad for our country. We have to take back the House of Representatives, we have to.

  (29:53)
Registered Democrats and Independents are leaving the Democrat party in droves, and we are welcoming these people, and these great voters, to the Republican Party with wide, open arms.

  (30:11)
And we are thrilled to be joined tonight by a lot of your great leaders, a lot of your really wonderful people. I’m not going to mention all the names, because all those cameras that are rolling, they don’t like it when I do it, but one they don’t mind is Governor Kim Reynolds. Come up, Kim, come up here! Also first gentleman, Kevin Reynolds, Kevin!

  (30:48)
Kim, come on, come on.

Kim Reynolds: (30:55)
Do we love him! Do we love him? Are we going to win Iowa for President Trump? Yes! Four more years!

Speaker 2: (31:16)
Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!

Kim Reynolds: (31:16)
You’re doing great.

Speaker 2: (31:16)
Four more years! Four more years!

  (31:16)
You want to say something?

Speaker 2: (31:16)
Four more years!

Kim Reynolds: (31:16)
No. On February 3rd, we are going to caucus. On November 3rd, we are going to vote. And on November 4th, we are going to celebrate four more years of President Trump!

  (31:40)
Great, great job. Thank you.

  (31:42)
Oh, she was driving me a little bit batty. She would call me up, Kim, you would call. “What about ethanol?” I said Kim, “I mean, I’m doing a lot for that place.”

  (31:53)
“No, no. We want ethanol.” Then, “we want biofuel.” Then she is asking for things I never even heard of, but we got them all, whatever that hell she wanted, we got. Right? And by the way, Joni Ernst and the great Chuck Grassley are right now in Washington fighting for fairness, fighting the hoax, fighting for all of us. They called, they said, “Do you mind if we don’t go tonight? We have to stay.” I said, “I don’t want you to be there. I want you to be where you are” because they are fighting for us. They are great people. They are great people.

  (32:33)
And, they would call too. Chuck Grassley, Joni Ernst, they would call, “We got to help our farmers, sir.”

  (32:40)
“Yes. Okay, we are going to help the farmer.” They were great. Lieutenant Governor Adam Gregg. Thank you, Adam. Thank you, Adam. Great job, Adam. Speaker of the Iowa House of Representatives, a man with really fantastic genes, got to have like the best genes in the world. Although you had an ex-governor here that had very good genes, too. We have his son in the audience, too, but this is Representatives Pat Grassley. Those genes, those two young men have the greatest genes anyone has ever had for politics. Thank you, fellas, thanks. I sent one of them, the father to China, and he’s now Ambassador to China. Do you think he is happy? Is he happy? I think so. I think he is happy. Great Governor, longest serving Governor in history, actually, 24 years. We have the Chairman of the Republican Party of Iowa, Jeff Kaufmann. Great job.

  (34:01)
And just quickly, we have the world’s tallest campaign manager, Brad Parscale. And Republican National Committee Co-Chair, who has done an incredible job, Tommy Hicks. And we have the great negotiator, the great man, Bob Lighthizer with us here, someplace. Where’s Bob? What a job he did negotiating for you.

  (34:27)
And we have somebody that you never heard of, somebody that’s a fantastic person, but you never heard of, somebody named Sarah Sanders. Have you ever heard of her? Come here, Sarah! Come on! That’s pretty good! And we have a great football player, from Iowa, Matt Whitaker is here, Matt. Say something.

Sarah Sanders: (35:16)
Thank you. How much do we love this president?

Speaker 2: (35:19)
[inaudible]

Sarah Sanders: (35:26)
And Mr. President, how much do we love the state of Iowa, so much. This is an incredibly special place, I actually met my husband here in Des Moines, so I love being back in Iowa. It is an amazing place. We’re sorry you have had so many crazy, liberal Democrats running around here the last year. But the good news is, it’s not going to matter, because at the end of the day, this guy will still be our president.

Sarah Sanders: (35:56)
Thank you very much. God bless you.

  (36:02)
Thank you, Sarah. Very popular. She is a terrific person, great person. Thanks to Republican leadership, American now has the hottest economy anywhere on the Planet Earth, not even close. Every Prime Minister, President, King, Queen, Dictator, whatever you want to call them, they all say, “How did you do it?” And, the truth is we have certain advantages, but we also have a people advantage. We have the greatest people in the world. I really mean that.

  (36:34)
Since the election, we have created seven million new jobs. The average unemployment rate, under my administration, listen to this, is lower than any previous administration in the history of our country. Can you believe that? The lowest unemployment rate. African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded, think of that.

  (37:11)
More than two million millennials, you know what millennials are, young, great people with a lot of future, they have gotten jobs, and their wages have grown by nearly 5% annually. That’s a record.

  (37:28)
Another record is that between the ages of 25 and 34, people are now working, and that’s a record, the number of people, 25 to 34.

  (37:41)
And under the so-called Trump Economy, the lowest paid earners are reaping the fastest gains of any group. And that’s a great thing. This is a blue collar boom, and that’s a good thing too. That’s a good thing.

  (37:59)
Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10% for the first time ever, for the first time ever.

  (38:10)
And median household income is at an all time high, just for one second, president Bush, eight years, $450. President Barack Hussein Obama, eight years, eight years, $975. President Donald John Trump, two and a half years, not three, because the numbers were taken at two and a half, now it’s actually higher. Two and a half years, including the tax cuts which are massive, and including all of the regulatory cuts, and the other things you have gotten, $10,000. Think of it.

  (38:54)
You have eight years, 450. Eight years, 975. Two and a half years, think of it, $10,000. It’s one of the reasons the economy is doing so well. And let the people down the road tell you about that, okay? Let them tell you about that. And those tractors that I told you to buy, your tractors will be 60 years old if they have anything to do with it. They will be 60 years old. They will be old, tired, exhausted. Your land will be exhausted. You will be exhausted.

  (39:26)
We’ve ended the war on American energy. The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth, by far. We are also proudly promoting American ethanol, and I recently approved E15 to be used all year round! Biofuel also, but the Socialist Democrats want to shut down American energy. They support Representative Ocasio-Cortez.

Speaker 2: (40:07)
Boo.

  (40:07)
It’s a real beauty. That’s a real beauty. That’s a beauty. I can’t even believe it, but I don’t want to knock it, because the Green New Deal, which would crush our farms, destroy our wonderful cows. I love cows. They want to kill our cows. You know why, right? You know why?

Speaker 2: (40:26)
Why?

  (40:28)
Don’t say it. They want to kill our cows. That means you are next. And they want to wipe out, totally, Iowa ethanol. They want to wipe it out. But we will never let that side get in, and by the way, that’s the least of it. But I don’t want to attack the Green New Deal, because they might change it.

  (40:51)
I said to her the other day, they said, “What do you think of the Green New Deal?” I said, “Well, it should be studied carefully. We should look at it, look at it closely. I don’t want to talk about until about two months before the election. And then I will tell you how totally insane it is.”

  (41:10)
How about this crazy Senator? How about this crazy, crazy Senator from Hawaii? They said, “I’m totally in favor,” not the smartest. She said, “I’m totally in favor of the Green New Deal.” Well, that would mean there’s no more airplanes. “Oh!” They started screaming at her in Hawaii, they said, “How the hell are we going to get to Hawaii?” They said, “We’re going to build a railroad.” She said that would be “the world’s longest track.” It’s the world’s longest. She doesn’t know that they don’t want airplanes anymore, and yet they fly around in brand new Gulfstreams, in brand new planes all over the place. They’re flying from place to place. They’re talking about the carbon footprint. “We’re going to destroy the carbon footprint! What time is my plane taking off, please?”

  (42:04)
To lift up forgotten communities, the Republican tax cut launched Opportunity Zones, jobs, and investment, and now rushing into over 60 newly… and this is incredible, brand, newly designated Opportunity Zones right here in Iowa alone. Rich people are investing vast amounts of money. Tim Scott, Senator Tim Scott, South Carolina, came into my office. He said, “I have an idea that I have wanted to do for years, but we have never had a president that could pull it off.” I said, “What is it, Tim?” And he talked about Opportunity Zones, first time I heard it. And we did it, and there is nothing, nobody has ever seen anything like it. Money is being poured into these communities that would have never been there. What’s happening is incredible. Opportunity Zones. Remember it.

  (42:51)
For decades, politicians ran for office, promising to protect American farmers and workers. You’ve heard it all your lives, right? But then, they went to Washington. They looked at those beautiful marble columns, and that gorgeous ceiling painted, and all that gold, the way they used to build the buildings, they don’t build them that way anymore. We could, but they just don’t know how. By the way, we’re building the wall. You know the wall is over a hundred miles long. It’s over a hundred miles long already and moving fast.

  (43:25)
They went to Washington and they sold you out. That’s what happened. They sold your jobs out. They sold everything out. Globalist politicians allowed other countries to raid our factories, ravage our farms, rob our workers, and ransack our communities. But the era of economic surrender is over, because now we are finally putting America first, America first.

Speaker 2: (44:10)
U.S.A. U.S.A. U.S.A. U.S.A. U.S.A. U.S.A. U.S.A. U.S.A.

  (44:10)
Before I took office, Washington looked the other way, while China stole our secrets from American agriculture. Your business, what they do scientifically, nobody understands what they have done to a seed. It doesn’t sound complicated. It is genius, what they have been able to do, what you have been able to do. But those secrets were being stolen, stolen. And installed massive barriers to your exports. You couldn’t do anything with exports, so people, not only China, many, many other places were stealing your secrets.

  (44:42)
Our new agreement with China will protect our intellectual property and pry open vast new markets for American beef, pork, poultry, seafood, soybeans, rice, dairy, and much, much more.

Speaker 3: (44:54)
I love you Donald Trump!

  (45:03)
But you know it is true. China is so big. 1.5 billion people. We have 350. 1.5 billion people, think of that, and we are just touching it. This deal will be so big. If it all works out, and you have the best product, the best product in the world, if it all works out, it will just keep expanding. 250 billion will end up being much, much more than that.

  (45:35)
And, I’ve told this story before, when we were signing, we were almost finished and I said, “How much are the farmers getting?” Meaning how much are they going to purchase from the farmers. And Ambassador Lighthizer said, “We put 20 billion, sir. The highest ever was 16, so we made it 20.” I said “Make it 50.” They said, “What?” And then people, even farm people, said, “Sir, we can’t produce that much.” I said, “That’s a good problem, not a bad problem.” I said, “Make it 50,” so we now have, in the contract, from 40 to $50 billion worth of purchase.” Make it 50, make it 50! Right, Jared? I said, “Jared, you better make it 50.”

  (46:23)
I want those farmers to come back, say, “Sir, sir, we can’t do it. We can’t produce that much, sir, what are you doing to us?” I don’t think that would ever happen? Do you think that would ever, I said they will figure a way. He’s going “Absolutely not.” Nah, I said, “Don’t make it 20, make it 50.”

  (46:40)
The U.S.M.C.A. is another colossal victory for American agriculture like you have never had before. It’s time. We suffered for a year and a half, almost two years. Think of it, but not really because I was able to give you those, I won’t call them subsidies. I made that mistake once with the farmers. I said to this group of farmers that came in, “Subsidy.” I used the word subsidy. That was the worst word, “Sir, we don’t watch subsidy! Please don’t ever use that word.” I said, “I won’t, I promise.”

Speaker 3: (47:04)
Amen!

  (47:06)
But we helped. And it will increase total agriculture exports by more than $2 billion annually. Think of that, including the huge dairy in Iowa, dairy, pork and poultry alone, so two billion just in those small [inaudible 00:47:23]. Just in that small, little grouping where you were doing nothing. It’s called promises made, promises kept. Promises met.

  (47:42)
The last time I came, I never did this before, I never ran, so they all said, “You never ran before. You can’t do this if you never ran,” so whatever happened, it happened. One by one, they started dropping out, right? And then I was left with one, Hillary Clinton, and that worked out very nicely. “He cannot get to 270,” remember? 270, electoral college. “He cannot get to 270.”

  (48:10)
I went to Maine. It’s true, Maine, too. It’s got one point, right, one. I went there a lot, many times. Everyone said, well, they kept getting me, maybe if I have a great night, 269, but 269 loses. Right? But we got 306 to 223. 306, 223, so they were right, “You cannot get to 270, you can get to 306,” but not that there is…

  (48:44)
In the eight years before my election, net farm income plummeted by 20%, you know that. If you look at a chart, for 15 years actually, not eight, for 15 years, it’s like a roller coaster ride down for the farmer. Soybeans. Take a look at it all. It was just a one way street. Everybody was ripping off the American farmer. Now you’re going to see numbers that are going to be great. Look at even what’s happened recently. It’s incredible what’s going on and I love it, because you deserve it. You suffered a lot, with people that were stupid. They were stupid! Under three years of my administration, net farm income has already gone up nearly 50% and will now be rising even faster. What are you going to do? You are going to vote for Bernie? You are going to vote for Bernie?

  (49:37)
Here I am on the debate stage, “Well, net income has gone up for the farmers 50%.” Tell me, how the hell do I lose this debate? How do I lose? And based on the polls, I guess I’m not going to lose in this state. I don’t think I will lose in any other state either. Because this is really true all over the country. This is happening all over the country, not just Iowa.

  (50:02)
On no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly betrayed the American people than on immigration. Illegal immigration costs our nation hundreds of billions of dollars, drains public services, overcrowds our schools and hospitals, and threatens innocent American lives at a number that you wouldn’t even believe. But we have got it closed up, but we’re getting your people in. You have people that have worked for you for a long time, don’t you? I know who the people that you have, and they are hard workers. We have a lot of great people. You have a lot of great people out there. Right here in Des Moines, a twice deported, illegal alien was charged with shooting and killing a woman, her 11-year-old daughter, and her five-year-old son.

  (50:45)
In this region of the county alone, last year, ICE officers arrested nearly 4,000 illegal aliens charged or convicted of heinous crimes, including robbery, rape, and murder.

  (50:58)
Yet today’s Democrat Party glorifies illegal immigration. We have no idea, now we do now, but people would come in by the hundreds of thousands. We have no idea who they are. Many are fine people and all of that, but some are stone cold rapists, and murderers, and people that their countries don’t want, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, and even Mexico. Right now we have a love affair with Mexico because the Democrats, the Democrats wouldn’t give us what we needed and I got Mexico, they’re great. They put up 27,000 soldiers on our Southern border and the numbers are plummeting, 87% down.

  (51:47)
The president of Mexico is doing a great job. And we ended Catch and Release. You think that was easy? Catch and Release, you know what Catch and Release is? You catch a criminal, you take the number, and you release him into the, they would never come back. We say, come back please in three years, this is a Democrat deal. Come back if you don’t mind, in three years. We release them into our country. We totally ended it through a very, very slick group of rules. Catch and Release. May we please have your address and your phone number? “Here it is!”

  (52:24)
“What have you done?”

  (52:26)
“I got out of jail.”

  (52:28)
“Oh, well, welcome to the United States. Please, we have a little information. Okay, and now we’re going to release you, and in three and a half years, we schedule a court appearance for you.” Do you believe, this is the only country in the world. They catch somebody on the border. You’re supposed to be Perry Mason. You take them to court. Other countries catch somebody at the border. They say, ” Sorry, you got to get out.” We say, “Oh, may we have your information? We’re taking you to court.” Man.

  (52:57)
Today’s Democrat Party glorifies illegal immigration, vilifies the heroes of law enforcement, and pledges to dissolve immigration control entirely. They want open borders. They want hundreds of thousands of people to flow into our country. And some of those people, some of those people are stone cold killers. Some of those people, in the caravans, right? I came up with that name but they won’t give me credit for that. They don’t give me credit for anything. They don’t give me credit for fake news. Wasn’t that my term? Now they say, I see CNN, they said, “Fake news has reported,” no, no, you are fake news, that fake news is you. You are fake news.

  (53:43)
They turned the term around. They are reporting that fake news is reporting their fake news. Left wing politicians even support deadly sanctuary cities that release criminal aliens directly into American communities. We don’t want them. In New York City, the Mayor’s Sanctuary Policy recently forced the release of a-

  (54:03)
… the mayor’s sanctuary policy recently forced the release of a criminal illegal alien charged with assault. After being set free the same criminal raped, brutalized and murdered a 92 year old woman. They wouldn’t give him to the ICE warriors. Their warriors. They’re tough and they love our country. They’re very tough and they love our country. They’re taking MS-13 gang members … They’re about as tough as you get, they’re taking them out of our country by the thousands. By the thousands. That’s a tough job but they love to do it. They love our country.

  (54:43)
Sanctuary city policies aren’t just wrong, they’re immoral, and they’re lethal, and they really are something that has to be stopped. They have to be stopped now. What’s happening is a disgrace.

  (54:57)
Thankfully here in Iowa your great Republican governor, sometimes referred to as Governor Reynolds, signed a state-wide ban on sanctuary cities. Thank you Kim. That is why we need to elect more Republicans nationwide, to end sanctuary cities in all 50 states. Thank you Kim Reynolds. You know I endorsed her, so I want to take full credit for the job she has done. I endorsed her very early, right? Very early I endorsed her. I know talent. She’s done a great job.

  (55:44)
Democrats stand for crime, corruption, and chaos. Republicans stand for law, order, and justice. It’s true. We are finding the illegal game members, drug dealers, predators, and we are throwing them the hell out of our country, ideally. We don’t want to put them in prison because you know what? We got to pay for them for the next 50 years, but sometimes we have to. If they’re too dangerous we have no choice.

  (56:15)
Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border we have reduced illegal border crossings seven straight months in a row, and they’re getting lower, and lower. Shockingly, as that wall gets longer, the crossings get less. Remember the Democrats? “You don’t need a wall. You don’t need a wall. You don’t need it.” Seven years they all voted for it, they just didn’t have the ability to build it. You know it’s not easy with land, and this, and that, and property, and rights. They couldn’t figure it out but I can figure it out. The problem was we couldn’t get the money, but we got all the money we need now. We have everything. We have everything. The last time, this last budget, they didn’t really fight us on the wall. You know why? Because they learned it’s a really bad issue for them. It’s a really bad issue. But I made one mistake with the wall. I should have said, “We will never ever build a wall.” They would have given me so much money to build a wall. That was my only … Because I used to go, “We will build the wall,” right? That was a mistake. I should have said, “We will never ever build it. Under no circumstances,” and they would have forced its building and I would have said, “Okay.”

  (57:39)
By the way, in all due respect, you know who’s going to pay for the wall, right? No, no, they play … The fake news plays. No, no, through remittance illegal aliens from Mexico are going to pay for the call. That’s what it is. Remittance. 100% because when I say something I mean it. I said I was going to build a wall.

  (58:03)
You think it’s easy when you have a party that controls the House, you got to end that. You got to end that. They said they picked up the House in ’18 but I didn’t run in ’18. You know the big difference when you run, ’16 I ran, ’18 I didn’t run. They did, they picked up some seats. I didn’t run, but I’m running this time and we’ve got to take back the House. Kevin McCarthy will be a great Speaker of the House. Kevin McCarthy will be a great Speaker, watch.

  (58:33)
But getting something built when you have a party that controls one of the three, getting it built is … Honestly I don’t want to brag, nobody else could have done it. Nobody else could have done it. It’s The Real Deal wall. It’s the wall that border security wanted. Remember I thought I could just build concrete slabs? They didn’t want that because you have to be able to see through. I said, “Oh come on.” This is the expensive version. This is the best version. This is steel, and concrete, and rebar in between. It’s really something.

  (59:08)
Did you see the other day where drug dealers got caught at the top? They couldn’t get over. We had to get the fire department to get them down. They couldn’t get over and they’re like mountain climbers. They got used to climbing. They got caught because you know that panel? That’s an anti-climb panel. It’s very hot and very tough. It’s a very hard panel to climb, the panel on top. Sometimes I’d say, “I’d rather do without that panel,” because I’m a very visual person. They said, “Sir that’s anti-climb panel.” I said, “Oh it is? Okay, let’s put it on. To hell with it.” It’s true. Anti-climb panel.

  (59:45)
The wall is the top of the line. That’s what they wanted. Mostly 30 feet tall. That’s very tall. That’s maximum. It’s really doing a big trick. A lot … Wherever we have it … 100 miles is all of a sudden a lot, but where you have that it’s incredible. 99.9%, especially when we’re watching it. We’re watching the sections.

  (01:00:05)
Illegal crossings now are down 75% since last spring. The powerful border wall was starting to set. I mean pretty soon we’ll be setting records in speed. It’s going up very rapidly. Very rapidly. You’re seeing it all over and it’s going to be really something. Look, it would be nice if we didn’t have to have it. It would be great, but we have to have it. They said, “Oh we could have drones.” Oh what are you going to do with drones flying around? When people are going through your border with nowhere … They’re going to have drones flying around. They know because they were all for it. They were all for it. Now all of a sudden they’re against, but they want drones. Well we’re going to have drones too but the drones are policing the wall.

  (01:00:49)
In terms of human trafficking, people don’t even talk about it. Because of the internet, sadly, the worst in the history of our world. All over the world. Trafficking in women and children all over the world. All over the world. The worst it’s ever been, but when we have this border it makes it very, very tough for them to come into the United States with women and with children stuffed in trunks in the back of a car.

  (01:01:20)
The Washington Democrats have never been more extreme. 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie Sanders’ government healthcare takeover bill. It’s a takeover of your healthcare that would strip all of those 180,000 million great Americans of your private coverage. You want that. You got great deals. You’re able to negotiate, you’re able to keep your doctor, keep your area, keep your hospitals, keep everything that you wanted. Now they want to take it away. Report to an operating room when you have a cold, okay? In your local hospital. I don’t think so. 180,000 million people, but I’m not going to knock it because I want Bernie to bring it right up to the end and we’ll debate it the day before the election. Okay? We are saving your healthcare while Socialist Democrats are trying to take away your healthcare.

  (01:02:14)
Sleepy Joe has no idea what he’s even … He doesn’t even know what he’s talking about. He’s so lost. Honestly, that poor guys is so lost. They talk healthcare, she said, “It’s over for him.” It was over for him, actually if you knew him, a long time ago. Now it’s really over.

  (01:02:31)
We are making healthcare better and cheaper. We got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular thing, which essentially killed Obamacare. We are protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will, the Republican party. We’re stopping surprise medical billing and making everything totally transparent. I signed it already. Everything now is going to transparencies, where hospitals, doctors, everybody has to tell you how much things are costing. Watch those prices come down. Right? Right?

  (01:03:17)
I have an expert on healthcare. He said transparency because it’s a big deal. It’s a big deal. Nobody else would have gotten it done, that I can tell you. Transparency is bigger than healthcare because you will see prices tumbling like you wouldn’t believe. People go in for a blood test, they get charged $2,700. Down the road they get the same test for $57. The same exact test. Maybe it’s better. Maybe it’s better. It’s crazy. When you have transparency it’s all going to come. You watch. You watch. But this person, a real expert, said, “This is bigger than healthcare,” and I got it done. Unfortunately it won’t really start kicking in until after the election because it takes a period of time. They have certain statutory requirements, et cetera.

  (01:04:02)
Well you better let me win. Can you imagine? Can you imagine? I did transparency, I took the guts, I did transparency and then I’m going to watch as somebody else says, “Didn’t he do a great job for transparency?” You better let me win because I want the credit for that one.

  (01:04:19)
We’re buying cheaper drugs from other countries and approving more generic drugs than ever, ever, ever before. We are defending your right to keep the doctor. We are defending your right to keep your plan. Remember Obama 28 times, “You can keep your doctor. You can keep your doctor”? 28. “You can also keep your plan. You can keep it. You can keep it.” 28 times he lied. We should impeach him. No, he got it on a lie. He got it on a lie, but we’ve run it much better. But essentially it’s totally different because of individual mandate. Because that really took the guts out of it and we’re running it much better.

  (01:05:04)
I had a choice, do we run it well or do we run it poorly? If we run it poorly everyone’s going to blame me. If we run it well everyone’s going to give him credit, especially the fakers back there right? But you know what? We got to run it well but we’re coming up with a healthcare that if we win the House we will have the best healthcare of any country in the world, by far.

  (01:05:29)
We’re fighting the lobbyists and we’re fighting the special interest, in case you didn’t notice. We are serving only you. Thanks to our bold reforms we’re now offering health plans that are 60% cheaper than Obamacare. We’re offering a lot of different things. We have just passed, recently, 10 months ago, Right to Try. I love Right to Try.

  (01:05:52)
You know what that is? That’s people are terminally ill and they can’t use medicine because … They’ve been trying to pass this, almost for 50 years. You can’t use the medicine. We have the greatest doctors, labs, hospitals in the world. They come up with a medicine but it has to go through the FDA procedure, right? You can’t do anything. You can’t use it. They won’t let you use it. Now I have you sign an agreement, you’re not going to sue the United States, you’re not going to this, your family, et cetera, et cetera. Very simple. And they can use it. You have no idea the results that are taking place. You have no idea. You have no idea the results. People’s lives are being …

  (01:06:35)
For me it was simple. I said, “Wait a minute, you’re worried about hurting somebody? These people are dying. They’re terminally ill. They’re admitting they’re terminally ill and you won’t let them use a drug that may work? Let the use the drug.” And we’re letting them use the drug and it’s working in a lot of cases.

  (01:06:57)
We have transformed veterans healthcare, including VA Choice. The best. You know I think I’m a totally brilliant human being. I think I’m the smartest person, so I came up with a plan. I’ll never forget, I was in New Hampshire, I came up with this idea because everybody kept coming up to me and saying, “Sir it’s really terrible what’s happening with healthcare. We’re waiting in line for two weeks, for four weeks, for seven weeks.” Honestly people were waiting in line, they weren’t very sick, they were terminally ill, truthfully, before they saw a doctor. By the time they got to the doctor. So I came up with this incredible plan. Only I could think of this. I said, “Here’s what you do … Here’s what you do, if somebody can’t get a doctor quickly,” because we have great doctors at the VA. They don’t get enough credit. “If you can’t get to a doctor quickly you go outside, you go locally, you get a doctor, we pay the bill, you get yourself all better.” Right?

  (01:07:50)
So I went back. I went back and I told my people, “Do you have any idea how smart I am? Listen to this plan I have.” They said, “Actually sir we’ve known about that plan for 52 years we just couldn’t get it approved.” So I said, “Oh that’s too bad, I thought it was brilliant,” but what I am good at is getting things approved and I got it approved. People are using it and it’s great.

  (01:08:19)
I know the people of Iowa don’t care about this but we are making substantial investments in rural healthcare. We are combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years. That’s a great thing. Our great first lady is helping us with that. That is such a big thing for Melania. Big, big thing. She is really involved.

  (01:08:51)
We will never let the Democrats give away your healthcare to illegal immigrants, especially when we say, “Come in. Come in, we’ll give you healthcare.” It’s one thing they come in and it’s a rough situation because we all have hearts but when people are saying, like in California this wacky governor he says, “Come in, we’re going to give you healthcare. We’re going to give you free education. We’re going to give you everything. We’re going to give you a beautiful Rolls-Royce.” See to show you how fake they are one of the newscasters said, “Donald Trump said that the governor of California promised a Rolls-Royce to illegal immigrants. He didn’t promise them. This was a lie and a misrepresentation by President Trump.” They can’t take a little humor. They can’t take it. These people are sick. They’re sick. No. They’re sick people.

  (01:09:51)
Them and Shifty Schiff is a very sick person. He lies awake at night shifting and turning, Shifty. Shifting and turning in his bed, sweating like a dog. “How am I going to get him? He didn’t do anything wrong, how am I going to get him?” Oh what a sick guy he is.

  (01:10:09)
Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion. Ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb. Right up until the moment of birth. That is why I have asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, Socialism, and blatant corruption. No matter how you cut it, that’s what it is. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln. You know that, right? Abraham Lincoln. Honest Abe.

  (01:11:17)
Remember I always said, “I can be more presidential than any other past president, other than perhaps Abraham Lincoln when he’s wearing the hat,” right? Because it’s easy to be presidential but only have about three people in front of me. Be a, “Good evening ladies and gentlemen. Is everything okay in Iowa? Oh I see, the world is ripping you off. Well there’s not a thing I can do about that. Thank you. Good night everybody. Good night.” No, we got to do it the right way. Republicans …

  (01:11:52)
And by the way, can I be honest? Doing this takes far more talent than doing that. Doing that is very easy. This is not easy. Especially when you just left Michigan, and you just left other places, and you got maniacs doing a number on you all the time for three years. You got the maniacs for three years. I think before I came down the escalator with our future first lady I think really they were doing it then. They started even before I came down on the escalator. These people are maniacs, so you have all that. So you’re fighting that and you’re doing farm bills.

  (01:12:28)
We got your farm bill approved by the way. We got your farm bill approved. I don’t even mention that because that’s massive by any other standard, but it’s peanuts compared to the USMCA and the China deal, right? So I don’t even mention it.

  (01:12:41)
Anyway, Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background and from every race, religion, color, and creed. It’s true. Our numbers with African American workers, people, are through the roof. Are through the roof because … Remember I used to say, “What do you have to lose?” I’d read the down the worst on crime, the worst on education. They got this, they got that, they got 10 different things, all horrible. One day I’m in front of this tremendous group of people and I’m reading this list, African American, they have the highest crime rate, they have the highest this, they have the worst education, they have the worst schools, they have the worst … I said, “Stay with me,” because they were with the Democrats for a hundred years, more. I said, “Stay with me. What the hell do you have to lose?”

  (01:13:33)
You know what? You know what? Remember that? Now they have the best employment and unemployment numbers, they have the best poverty numbers, they have numbers that nobody would believe. They’re doing so great. It’s so great to see it. It’s incredible. Youth unemployment, African American youth. It’s been great.

  (01:13:58)
We’re asking all Americans to join our incredible movement. We are a big tent and a big party with big, bold, beautiful ideas for the future. We’re what the country was based on originally. It was called greatness. It was called greatness.

  (01:14:21)
During National School Choice Week, School Choice everybody, we continue our fight to rescue children trapped in failing government schools. Iowa became one of the first states to pass School Choice. That was over 10 years ago. Now Governor Reynolds, Senator Ernst, Senator Grassley, and more than 100 members of Congress are supporting our plan to give School Choice to every child in America who needs it. It’s a great plan.

  (01:14:52)
To give former prisoners a second chance at life we passed criminal justice reform. Think of that. Think of that. We had a lot of great Conservatives who wanted it, we had Liberals who wanted it. They couldn’t get it passed. President Obama couldn’t even come close. He didn’t try too hard. He talked like, “Oh I’ll try.”

  (01:15:15)
To uphold the rule of law we have confirmed 191 federal judges, a record, who will interpret The Constitution as one. And two great Supreme Court justices, by the way. As part as … Right? Two great ones.

  (01:15:39)
As part of my commitment to rebuild our military we secured an $8.5 million facility to support our Iowa Guardsmen at Camp Dodge, right here in Des Moines, Iowa. Right here, Camp Dodge. Camp Dodge everybody. We take care of Camp Dodge.

  (01:16:01)
I recognized Israel’s true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. We recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Yesterday we just released a historic new plan for peace. We’re going to see if we can get that done. It’s one of the toughest deals of all. One of the toughest deals but we have a shot at it.

  (01:16:29)
For years you watched as your politicians apologized for our country. They apologized. They would say, “I’m sorry.” Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Iowa. We are standing up for Iowa.

  (01:16:50)
At stake in our present battle is the survival, frankly, of our nation. Look, I can make this speech really short. All I have to do is say, “Hello Iowa, you have no choice. You have to vote for me. Otherwise everything that you’ve built in your entire life will be gone. Goodbye Iowa, have a good time.” Instead I work my ass off up here, okay? Yeah. True. Do you think this is easy? It’s a little hot in this room. This room wasn’t designed for this many people.

  (01:17:33)
If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020. We have to.

  (01:17:51)
By the way, for those beautiful farmers that want to leave your small farms or businesses to your children … Because of our great tax bill, the biggest tax cut in the history of our country, the biggest that you benefit by. Because of that there is no death tax or inheritance tax, as they call it. So I always say, “If you love your children that’s a great thing. If you don’t love your children don’t leave it to them and that particular tax won’t matter,” but if you love … Is there anybody here that does not love your children? Is there anybody here who loves your children? Well it’s Iowa. It’s Iowa. You love your children. You know you have no tax to pay, you leave your …

  (01:18:43)
In the old days, meaning before Trump, what would happen? You’d leave your farm, they’d assess your farm for a massive amount that kids would go out to a bank, they’d borrow money up to their eyeballs and they’d end up losing the farm. Now you can leave your farm … And they did that to pay the tax. Now you can leave your farm, you don’t pay inheritance tax or [inaudible 01:19:03]. No, it’s great. So when you’re looking down at your children you’re saying, “Oh did you get lucky? Did you get lucky? Look at them, they’re enjoying life.”

  (01:19:19)
But only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all. That swamp is bad. That swamp is bad. I had no idea it was going to be this sick and this degenerated. It’s a degenerate swamp. I had no idea. When I came out, I said, “We’re going to drain this swamp.” I had no idea that the swamp was that evil, but we’re winning. We’re winning because we’re in The White House. We’re winning.

  (01:19:49)
With your help we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependents to independents, and poverty to prosperity. That’s what’s happening all over our country. Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. It’s already happening. We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products made, raised, farmed, and grown right here in the USA. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine. Finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America in less than 10 years. We’ve already started.

  (00:00)
Should have been started in the last administration. Incredible. Should have been started earlier, but we started. In less than 10 years, the AIDS epidemic will be eradicated, will be gone. Who would have thought that was possible? When they came in and told me that a couple of years ago, I said, “Really? Nobody knows that.” Incredible the strides that we’ve made.

  (00:26)
We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms. In the state of Virginia they want to take your guns away, you believe it? Virginia, I love Virginia. Of all states, they want to take your guns away. The Democrats. Not going to happen.

  (01:00)
Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America. We are one great America. We support, protect, and defend the constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that family and faith, not government bureaucracy, are the true American way, not government bureaucracy. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust. We live by those words, in God we trust.

  (02:05)
From Cambridge, good old Cambridge. Who’s from Cambridge here please? Cambridge. What the hell do I mention it for when there’s two people here? Can I say it anyway? I’ll say it anyway. Good place Cambridge. Good, he said it’s amazing. Well, from Cambridge to Council Bluffs, from Cedar Rapids where I made my last speech prior to the election. What a place, 32,000 people. I said, “I’m going to win tomorrow.” To Rock Rapids, from Melbourne to Moorhead, and from Davenport to right here in Des Moines, Iowa. We stand on the shoulders of true red blooded American heroes.

  (02:54)
This great state was founded by tough, tough, tough frontier men. These are tough people. Let’s see how big and how tough. They’re tough. Anybody like to join ICE? You want to join ICE? He says, “No thank you.” And strong pioneer women who defied the dangers to carve out a life and a beautiful home with great families and great neighbors. They tamed the wilderness, braved the elements, tilled the soil, planted the fields and help make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth and we are making it greater and greater every single day.

  (03:54)
Proud citizens like you helped to build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people, where it has always belonged. It’s coming back to you, you see that. With your help, your devotion and your drive we are going to keep on working and we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before and ladies and gentlemen, and especially the great ladies and gentlemen of Iowa, the best is yet to come. True, true. Because together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you, Iowa. Thank you. Thank you.





  (00:43)
Oh, thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Thank you very much. And considering that we caught President Obama and sleepy Joe Biden, spying on our campaign, treason, will probably be entitled to another four more years after that. I wanted to thank you, and Art and Brandon, you’re incredible. I’ve known you now a long time. Right from the beginning, we had the chemistry, we had that good chemistry… Oh, sit down. It’s 122 degrees in this place. And we have our great Governor. Governor, can we make it a little bit, just a little. This is like a test. You think Joe Biden could do this? I don’t think so.

  (03:07)
So I’m thrilled to be in Yuma, Arizona To proudly accept the endorsement of the National Border Patrol Council, that’s a big deal. And they are great friends of mine. And we’re building the wall. Next week, we’ll be up to 300 miles of incredible wall. And our numbers are the best. We are very tough at the border. When people want to come in, for our farmers, et cetera, et cetera, we’re not going to hurt our farmers, but we’ve never had better numbers than we have right now. And that’s been helped because we’re at a little bit over 280 miles right now, we have never been helped like this. Wall, there are two things, in a thousand years you can come back, two things will never, with technology it’s obsolete before you even put it in the box, but two things never get old wheels and walls. Wheels and wall. If you come back in a thousand years, you’ll say, “Well, we still have wheels in walls.” And that’s the only thing you’ll recognize.

  (04:15)
The National Border Patrol Council is the official union representing the incredible heroes of the United States Border Patrol. They’ve been my friends from the beginning. To every border agent, and I just met some unbelievable people backstage, these are great people, and every family member here today, you have earned the everlasting gratitude of our nation. And I want to thank you very much. Thank you very much. As you know, better than anyone, the survival of our nation is at stake in this election. And I will tell you, I never thought I’d say it because we had a great election. We had a great election a little while ago.

  (04:59)
Four years ago, I never thought I’d say anything could compete with 2016. This election that we’re going into is the most important election in the history of our country, because we had crooked Hillary, but this is something, these people are sick. And we have to make sure that this radical left socialist and beyond, because this is beyond socialism, that it doesn’t happen, or we will indeed have Venezuela on steroids. So we can’t do it. Most important election, November 3rd, get out and vote. Joe Biden is the puppet of the radical left wing movement that seeks the complete elimination of America’s borders and boundaries. They want to take the wall down, they don’t want to have borders, they want to have sanctuary cities, lots of bad things they want. Following orders from his boss. I guess his new boss is Bernie Sanders. Can you believe that? Crazy Bernie.

  (06:09)
Joe Biden has pledged to abolish immigration enforcement, suspend all removals, provide free government healthcare, and they want to give it to illegal aliens. You don’t get it. Restore, catching and release. Shield violent criminal aliens. This is what they want to do. And give every illegal alien on the planet earth a free ticket to invent an asylum claim, and gain automatic admission into our country. We will have people coming into our country that never even thought of it before. You get free education, you get free healthcare, why wouldn’t they come? Let’s go to America. The Biden plan would unleash a flood of illegal immigration like the world has never seen. It’s crazy. Biden’s plan is the most radical, extreme, reckless, dangerous, and deadly immigration plan ever put forward by a major party candidate. It must be defeated, and it will be defeated on November 3rd. It will be defeated.

  (07:24)
At last night’s Democrat convention, which by the way, got very bad ratings, I have to tell you. Unity. They talk about unity. They want to bring unity. And then you listen to Michelle Obama’s speech, which was obsolete by the time it got there. She taped it. No, she taped the speech. It was obsolete. She must have taped it about three weeks before. I’m speaking next Thursday, maybe I’ll tape it. But I don’t think that goes. That’s so much nicer, to tape it, you do it, nice air conditioned room. And she not only taped it, but tell me when you hear a divisive speech… They talk about me as being a divider. I’m not a divider. I bring people together. We were bringing people together. We were bringing people together, like never before. Success was bringing everyone together, and then we got hit with the China virus, but we were bringing people together.

  (08:26)
But one of the opening speakers last night said that America will go to hell if we don’t have open borders. Think of that. Go to hell. When a country doesn’t have borders, you don’t have a country. Today, a Democrat speaker at the convention said, “We’re talking about abolishing the police, we’re talking about abolishing ICE, we’re talking about abolishing prisons.” Biden’s campaign has turned into a cult for open border and others Zealots. By the way, they want to double and triple your taxes, they want to increase regulations, they want to spend very little money on our vets, after we took care of our vets better than anyone’s. 91% approval rate. And they want to spend much less on our military, we’ve totally rebuilt. Two and a half trillion dollars, we’ve totally rebuilt our military.

  (09:26)
Bernie Sanders declared, in his speech, many of the ideas that just a few years ago were considered radical, are now mainstream. That’s Bernie Sanders. Because Joe, he doesn’t know where he is. But if he did, he’s been brought so far left that our country will not be the country that we know. It will have problems, it will go down. Your stocks will be gone, your 401ks will disappear. And right now, who has the 401k? And then the rest of you, many of you have stocks, and you do it a different way. That will go down 50, 60, 70%, 80%. And if you held on, like I said to do, we went down a little while we got hit with a virus. Now, NASDAQ just broke an all time record. SNP, just broke an all time record.

  (10:26)
Socialism is the mainstream of the Biden campaign and it’s not the mainstream of America. Remember I said, we will never have a socialist country. On November 3rd. The people of Arizona, our great state, we love Arizona. I won it last time, by a lot. And I hear we’re going to win it by even more this time. Don’t forget, last time I talked, I said we’re going to give you a tax cuts, I gave you. I said, we’re going to give you a massive regulation cuts.

  (11:03)
Give you your tax cuts, I gave them to you. I said we’re going to give you massive regulation cuts, we’re going to give you great everything. We even did Right to Try medicine. You know all about that. We did things that I didn’t even talk about it, we did. We did a thing called the Space Force. You never heard me talking about. I’m the only candidate that gave you more than I promised in the campaign. It’s true. I’m the only one ever, maybe ever. Or we’ll head to the polls and together we’ll stop the left and win four more years in the White House. We’re joined today by some incredible people, friends of mine, great, great people. And I want to congratulate your governor because we had a spike and he knocked that spike out so fast. I don’t know. Are you sure you even had a spike? Doug Ducey, a great governor, great man, and a somebody that won by about 16 or 17 points. That’s not so bad. And I think you’re more popular today. What a job you’ve done. Thank you very much, Doug.

  (12:02)
A friend of mine and somebody who’s a great fighter pilot, and I had a lot of people tell me she could really wheel the Warthog, right? The Warthog. She said, “I love that plane,” but she was a great, great fighter pilot, one of the best they were telling me. This was a group and they knew a very well. A lot of friends you have. And specifically she said, “Could you extend that plane? That’s the best plane. It never breaks down. It just is a winner.” But Martha McSally is an extraordinary person, and she’s fighting for us, and she’s helping us, and we have to bring her into the center. Thank you, Martha.

  (12:43)
And she’s running against a gentlemen who is, when you read what he’s done, when you read what he said about the second amendment and about all other things, you’re not going to want to vote for. You’re not going to want to have them play with your second amendment. I’ll tell you what. If I weren’t President, I don’t believe, Doug, you’d have a second amendment right now. I don’t think you’d have. The pressure that was put on to get rid of it, or to basically obliterate it, make it so it’s meaningless. You will always have the right to bear arms. You will always have that.

  (13:20)
A few friends of mine who are warriors. Paul Gosar. Paul. Where’s Paul? Paul, stand up. Will you? Paul Gosar. Thank you, Paul. Appreciate. Great job you’re doing. These are warriors. They really are. When they went and they tried to make a play at your President, they had to get through the House. What were we? 197 and nothing. That’s never happened before. Everybody came together. The Republicans came. Other than Mitt Romney, one half a vote. One half a brain.

  (13:52)
Another friend of mine and incredible fighter, and somebody that loves his state, and I’ll tell you, the Freedom Caucus, right? And we have a man named Andy Biggs here. He’s a fighter. He’s a fighter. And he loves our vets, and he loves our military, and you love our second amendment, right? And we’re not going to do anything with it. They will destroy that second amendment. Just remember I said it, but you’re not going to have to worry about it because it’s not going to happen.

  (14:23)
A woman who really distinguished herself, she became a star. She became a star overnight. There was nobody tougher. There was nobody smarter. There was nobody better than Debbie Lesko. Great job, Debbie. Thank you. We want her on our side. Right fellas? We got to have her on our side. Also, thanks to Arizona Republican party chairman, I knew this was going to happen. I knew that she was going. She never stops. She never gives up. Kelly Ward. Kelly, thank you. Thank you, Kelly. Great job you’re doing. Are we winning?

Speaker 1: (15:10)
We’re winning.

  (15:10)
Okay, good. I think we are. That’s what they say. We better win. If we don’t win, this country is in big trouble. Big trouble. Also a great friend of all of ours, former State Treasurer of Arizona, Jeff DeWitt. Thank you Jeff. And a man who didn’t choke under pressure. I don’t even know if he’s here. I think he might be here. He never choked. He kicked for 11 years. You know what that is? You ever see a golfer. They miss a three footer. They miss a three footer. They can’t take it back. They choke, choke, choke. Well, kickers are the same. Right? NFL kickers. This guy lasted 11 years. He’s one of the best kickers ever. NFL kicker, Jay Feely. Where’s Jay? Where is Jay? He’s here someplace. Where is he? Jay? What happened? You couldn’t get a good seat, Jay. I remember the 61 yarder. That was a heartbreaker. Right? But the only thing is, I’ll bet you this man would stand, only stand, for our National Anthem. That’s one thing. That’s one thing I can tell you.

  (16:25)
And if they don’t stand for our flag, if they don’t stand for our National Anthem, I turn off the game. Other than that, I’d like to watch, but I turn off the game. And by the way, I thought they learned that lesson a little while ago. I thought they learned that lesson two years ago, but maybe not, but they will. They’ll learn it again. This time it’ll go even faster.

  (16:45)
For decades, Washington politicians like Biden allowed an endless supply of illegal foreign labor to decimate American jobs and wages. Also, the crime was incredible what happened. They allowed criminal gangs to menace, maim and terrorize innocent citizens. They came in. They would maim and terrorize, and we have done something with our border patrol. And by the way, ICE, ICE is great. ICE has taken out thousands and thousands of MS-13, and you don’t want the job. There’s some tough people here. None of you want the job. It’s a tough job, but they like it, and they’re great Patriots, and they’ve done a fantastic job. They ceded control of the border to the most dangerous and ruthless cartels on earth. This is what would happen. They have ceded. And what we’ve done, did you ever notice the caravans? What happened? Debbie, there are no more caravans. What happened? What happened to the caravans? They don’t come up anymore. The caravans don’t come up.

  (17:52)
You know, we were paying hundreds of millions of dollars to Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, hundreds of millions. And I said, “Well, why are we doing that?” And they wouldn’t take. When we caught a murderer and we wanted to bring it back to one of those countries, they wouldn’t take him. And they wouldn’t take him under the Obama administration. So we got stuck with them because they’d fly in. They’d say, “Don’t land your plane.” And I said something very simple. I said, “That’s okay. We don’t have to do that. We’re not going to pay you anymore. We stopped payment.” We stopped payment. It’s amazing how that works, Doug. Right? We stopped payment and they called. They said, “We’d love to take them. We’d be honored to take them.” So we take them back by the thousands, by the thousands. They let lethal poisonous drugs pour freely into our schools and our communities, but no more. It’s not happening anymore. The cruel and heartless portrayal of the American people ended the day I took the oath of office, and now that we have more than half of the wall built, and do you notice they don’t talk about the wall anymore. They don’t talk. Why don’t you talk? I went, “Look at all those people back there.” That’s called fake news, fake news. Look at them. It’s the fake news.

  (19:22)
They don’t talk about the wall anymore. See, we won. We got the wall. It’s going to be up to 300 next week and it’s going to be finished very soon. And as soon as we want, all of a sudden, they never talk about it. But you know where I talk about it? Numbers. The numbers are so good. The numbers are so low. We’ve never had numbers like this because that big portion of wall already built, you don’t get through it. You can’t get through it. You can climb Mount Everest, and you’re going to have an awful hard time getting over that sucker.

  (19:55)
I stood up to the lobbyists. Everybody fought us, the Democrats, everyone. I fought the special interests. I kept every single promise that I made, and now I’m doing it with the drug companies. I just created Favorite Nation. So if a nation buys it for less and they buy it for a fraction of what we pay, the drug companies have to sell it to us for the same price. And they’re spending so much. They’re spending millions of dollars on advertising. Anytime you see an ad from a drug company, and they’re rich, the farmer, it’s called Big Farmer, the number one lobbyist. They spend millions and millions, hundreds of millions of dollars online. Anytime you see, anytime at all, you see an ad by Big Farmer against me, you know your drug prices are coming down. That’s what it is. They’re not happy.

  (20:46)
And we’re giving the rebate that creates tremendous wealth for the middle man, the rebate. It’s going to the people now. We’re bringing the rebate and it’s going to the people. They are not happy. I have a lot of people in that industry do not like me too much. But you are going to get 50. You are going to get, and the Democrats would never do it, Biden would never do it because he doesn’t understand it, but they would never do it. They would in a million years, they wouldn’t do it. It took a lot of guts to do it. I had a lot of people, a lot of good politicians go, “Sir, I don’t think you should do it.” I wonder why you’re saying that, but we did it. We’re going to have drug prices reduced over a very short period of time, by not 2%, and last year they went down a little bit, first time in 51 years that drug prices went down but a little bit, we’re going to have prices dropping 50, 60, and even 70%. Drugs. About time.

  (21:44)
And I’m proud to say that they’ve achieved the most secure border, our border patrol, in the history of the United States of America. We now have the most secure border we’ve ever had and it’s only going to get better. And we want people to come in, but we want them to come in through merit, right? And we want people-

  (22:03)
… people to come in, but we want them to come in through merit, right? And we want people that are going to come in and are going to love for our country, not hate our country. Here in Yuma, Arizona, we’ve invested over $1.7 billion and poured 180,000 cubic yards, that’s a lot of concrete, to build 108 miles of powerful border wall. I know who’s going to vote for me. I don’t know though, I think I’m going to win Yuma. What do you think, Doug? I think, when I hear those numbers, when we hear those numbers, we’re winning. We’re going to win Yuma big. Now you see it and you see what’s going up and it’s an incredible structure, all capable, all wired up for cameras, for everything you can have. Technology is incredible.

  (22:47)
In total, I’ve already completely planned for the final execution, we’re going to have, by the end of the year, everything that we said is going to be built. We may actually build some more in some soft areas that we’ve noticed over the last two years. So we actually may put up some additional, but we will have it completed, everything we said, by the end of the year and nobody thought that was possible.

  (23:20)
And we’ve reduced illegal border crossings by 60% since this time last year. And if we keep going at the rate, it’ll be about 85% in about two months. So it’s a great honor. And you know what? Your community is much safer, you see the difference, it’s a much safer place to be. But more important than these numbers is the fact that we’ve ended catch and release. You know what catch and release is? These great men and women catch somebody, maybe a murderer, maybe a rapist, maybe a trafficker, they catch somebody, take his name, take his number and they release them into our country. And they say, “Come back in four years, you have a trial.” No more. We take them out. We bring them out. And nobody said that was possible because I couldn’t have gotten it through the Democrats because they don’t like that.

  (24:11)
So we have people coming in to this country, some great people, some really bad people too. And I mean murders and I mean rapist, I mean really bad people and they don’t get in and they don’t get back. When we bring them back to their country, could be Mexico also, they don’t come back. Under the Obama Biden, I call it OBiden, Under the OBiden administration, our agents were ordered to ignore the law and release illegal aliens by the hundreds of thousands. And by the way, Mark Morgan, where’s the great Mark Morgan? He’s around here someplace. Mark Morgan has been so incredible, one of our executives, he said, “We never built the cages. Those cages were built in 2014 by Obama.” We never the cages, they were built by Obama and the fake news is constantly saying that I built cages for children. I didn’t build them. They were built in 2014.

  (25:09)
There was a headline in Time magazine about the cage and somebody called in that built it. They said, “He didn’t build it, we built that for the Obama administration.” But they don’t stop, they keep calling it, they say I built the cages. You’ll hear it in one of the debates. They’ll say, “You built cages president.” I said, “No, I didn’t build cages. That was built by Obama.” Under the Trump administration, if you cross our border illegally, you are quickly apprehended and swiftly returned back home.

  (25:41)
We are proudly defending the job safety and security of the American people, which is what I promised to do. Nobody told me it was going to be this hard. Nobody told me I was going to have the Democrats go totally crazy. This was like a life and death war. You know why they don’t talk about it anymore? Because they know it’s bad politics, because they know having a wall, they can’t win that one. So they just say, “Let’s forget it ever happened.’ Because we won and they say, “Let’s forget.” They don’t want to talk about it. That includes the millions of incredible Hispanic Americans who follow our laws, uplift our community and protect our nation, in uniform. Half of all border patrol agents are Hispanic Americans, I was just with them. And today I salute each and every one of those true American heroes and that’s what they are.

  (26:39)
And nobody understands the border better than Hispanics. They know what’s good, what’s bad. They don’t want bad people coming into our country, taking their jobs, taking their homes, causing crime. Hispanic Americans are the people that are most in favor of what we’re doing on the border because they understand it. They understand it better than anybody. With the help of these patriots, we’ve stopped the rampant asylum fraud, shut down the human smugglers and we’re finding the drug dealers, traffickers, predators, and we’re throwing them to hell in jail or sending them back home.

  (27:24)
MS-13, for the first time that you’ve ever seen this, MS-13 is totally on the run. Many of its leaders are right now behind bars and we’re deporting its members in record numbers we’ve never reported. I can’t believe how many there are. But if Biden wins, it will be a giant jail break for MS-13 and vicious criminal gangs. China wants him to win so badly. Iran wants him to win so badly. When we win, I’ll have a deal with the red within a month, watch, because they’re dying to make a deal. But that last hope that Biden will win, they will own our country, China, they will own our country. We made such a great deal. Last week they had the largest order of corn in the history of our country, the largest single order. Then they did it again. You know why they’re doing that? Because they know I’m angry, because they know I don’t care so much anymore. We made a great trade deal, but I don’t care.

  (28:29)
But it shows you how smart they are, Doug. Another with normal brain power, they’d say, “Well, I’m not going to buy any more corn.” That’s good. And we’ll just decouple, thank you very much. But they go the opposite. They buy so much, good record numbers, soybeans record numbers. Last week, biggest ever, 42% of our farmers crop is now China, over the last little while. You know why? Because they don’t want bad things to happen, that’s why. So they’re very smart. When I have every farmer in the country calling and saying, “Please don’t do anything.” They’re very, very smart, but we can never forget what China did to this country and did to the world.

  (29:15)
The historic achievements that I’ve discussed today are only a slim fraction of the extraordinary accomplishment that we’ve all done together in the last four years. Here’s just a short list of our landmarks. Really they are landmarks, true landmarks. We instituted a national security travel ban on the world’s most dangerous regions, including jihadist regions, keeping terrorists and extremists out of our country. Everyone said, “Oh, that’s so bad.” Remember when they said, “Oh, that’s so bad.” I don’t think it’s so bad at all. We won the travel ban. The fake news said we didn’t because we lost in the lower court, we lost in the second court and we won in the Supreme court. So they said we lost. Can you believe it?

  (29:58)
They said we lost Debbie, because we lost the first two, but we won in the Supreme court, so they said, “They lost.” I guess, technically they’re right, we lost when it didn’t matter. But we have it. We have a great travel ban now for countries that are not countries where we want the people coming in. Over the last three years, ICE officers have made over 380,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records, including those charged or convicted of over 145,000 assaults, 40,000 sex crimes and 5, 800 murders. Over the last three years, border patrol and ICE have seized over two million pounds of fentanyl, heroin, meth, and other deadly narcotics. And you see it all the time.

  (30:51)
We stripped federal grant funding from deadly sanctuary cities. They want to have a sanctuary city, not going to be like the old days. We canceled the lawless policies of the previous administration and empowered border agents and ICE officers to do their jobs and proudly enforce the laws of the United States of America. We removed 20,000 gang members, including 4,500, MS-13. That’s pretty good. Who would ever think there’s that many? I entered into three landmark agreements with Honduras and El Salvador and Guatemala to end the abuse of the asylum system. We cut down that payment that I was talking about substantially and they’re still very happy and they are working with us very well and that includes Mexico.

  (31:44)
Right now, Mexico has 27,000 of their soldiers on our Southern border, helping us to guard our Southern border. And we’re giving you the tools to do the job that you signed up for. That’s what we’ve done. I entered into a historic partnership with Mexico, known as the migrant protection protocols, to safely return asylum seekers to Mexico, while awaiting hearings in the United States. You know about that. We had to have them in the United States and we captured them, we had to keep him here. I said, “No, no, we don’t want them here. We want them outside.” We got sued all over the place that we won. So now they don’t come into the United States, they can wait outside. For the first time ever, the United States is now exercising our full legal authority to expedited removal. We don’t have to go through years and years of litigation. You need Perry Mason to try and win. We ended the Obama Biden policy of giving work permits to newly arriving, illegal aliens. Think of that one. We established the national vetting center, the most advanced visa screening system, anywhere in the world. We know so much about the people coming in. We know the good and we know the bad. We’ve suspended refugee.

  (33:03)
… Good and we know the bad. We’ve suspended refugee resettlements from the world’s most dangerous regions, because nothing is more important than keeping America safe. To me, that’s number one. We’ve made historic progress to crack down on visa overstays. You know all about that. They overstay for years. They say, “Maybe a night, maybe two nights.” Well, five years later, you catch them. No, we ended it. We issued strict sanctions on countries that failed to take back their own criminals. We have many countries beyond the four that I mentioned, the three plus one, many countries. They all take them back now. Before, they weren’t taking them back at all. The last administration simply released these criminals. We’re making sure they go home and we’re making sure they stay home. We don’t want them.

  (33:53)
We issued regulations to stop the horrible practice of birth tourism. You know what that is, right? Anchor babies, you know that, right? Anchor babies. Have a baby in our country and you stay for the rest of your life. Congratulations. You’re a citizen for 90 years. Then you bring in your family. You bring in your family, right? No. No good. I implemented a historic public charge regulation to finally and fully enforce the federal requirement that newcomers to our country must be financially self-sufficient, they cannot accept welfare for at least five years.

  (34:30)
To protect our country and our agents during the pandemic, my administration took immediate action to ensure the safe and rapid return of all illegal aliens. We brought them back. We have very few in our country now. We brought them back, can you believe it? To protect US workers, I suspended the entry of low wage workers that threatened all of your jobs, American jobs, and we’re finalizing the new H-1B regulations to permanently end the displacement of US workers.

  (35:05)
In January after the China virus, after the outbreak, after the outbreak, the China virus outbreak, it came from Wuhan, right? I swiftly implemented a travel ban on China and I was criticized. Biden, opposed the ban. He said, “I oppose the ban.” He had no idea what the hell he was doing. Why do you oppose it, Joe? I don’t know. They told me to say that. If we had listened to Sleepy Joe Biden, hundreds of thousands of additional American lives would have been lost. We did a good thing. That was in January, I imposed it, very early.

  (35:43)
A month later, Pelosi and all these people said, “Oh no, let people come in. We can’t.” We imposed it because China was heavily infected. Then I imposed it in Europe also, heavily infected with Italy and France and Spain. Compare our achievements with the insane and lethal policies that Biden and Bernie Sanders want. The entire Biden… Harris. How about her? Is she a great one? Is she? By the way, you talk about guns. She wants no 2nd Amendment. She wants to raise your taxes to a level you’ll be paying your government back for a long time. She is not the right pick, but she was my number one draft pick. They asked me that.

  (36:28)
Why do you think? I said, “I’m very happy.” They thought I was happy. They thought I was happy for him. No, I was happy for me. The Biden-Harris plan is a step by step recipe for abolishing America’s borders. In the Biden, Bernie manifesto, Joe Biden, promises to restore and expand catch and release across the entire US border. You believe that? We just got rid of it. Free all illegal aliens from federal detention and close detention facilities, this would make removing illegal aliens totally impossible, and you would have murderers, killers, rapists in your midst. I don’t think so.

  (37:11)
Immediately suspend all removals, triggering a tidal wave of, really a flood, if you think, a flood all across our border. End prosecution of illegal border crosses ensuring that illegal aliens will repeatedly reenter the country over and over again and terminate all protections we have enacted against asylum fraud. They want to do things that nobody thought was even possible to contemplate.

  (37:41)
Now, this is all simple and I really respect because so far I’ve only seen about four or five people go down. Because it is hot in here. But I will tell you this… It’s 120. You know what I said before? Think of yourself at a great spa, great sauna, where it’s 120 degrees and we have to pay a lot of money to be there. You have to pay a lot of money. Getting off the border, getting off illegal protection, all of that, we are going to lower your taxes further. We gave you the biggest tax decrease in the history of… The biggest tax decrease in the history of our country. We decreased your taxes more than anybody has ever done and we’re doing more because that’s going to spell growth and that’s what happened.

  (38:29)
Companies are moving in like nobody has seen before. So we’re doing that. Massive additional regulation cuts. We’ve cut regulations more than any president in the history of our country, whether it’s four years, eight years, or in one case, more. I told you already, our military is the best it’s ever been. It’s got $2.5 trillion worth of new, beautiful jets and equipment and rockets and everything. Hopefully, we never have to use it. Our nuclear arsenal, and hopefully, hopefully we never have to even look at it, our nuclear arsenal is at a level that it’s never ever been before, and we have to have it there, but we never want to use it.

  (39:18)
So we have done things not only on the border, the border is one element, and to me it’s very important. Something that they always say about a president, the most important thing a president can do is the appointment of federal judges and supreme court justices. So by the end of our, of not my, our first term, we will have appointed 300 federal judges and appeals court judges, and two supreme court justices.

  (39:55)
When it comes to 2nd Amendment, when it comes to life, when it comes to a lot of things that you people live for, if you don’t have the supreme court and if you don’t have the courts in your side, you can forget it. The next president, I think, will pick two, three, or even four justices of the supreme court. They can be on the court for 40 to 50 years. You pick them young. They could be on there for 40 to 50 years. This is going to be the most consequential presidency. This is going to be the most important, and I never thought I’d say it because of what happened four years ago, this is going to be the most important election of your life. So I just want to…

Audience: (40:54)
Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years. Four more years.

  (40:58)
Thank you.

Audience: (40:58)
Four more years. Four more years.

  (41:02)
I just want to say stay healthy, stay sharp, be careful. Be very careful. Go out and work like hell. We need every single vote that we can get because it’s probably going to be close. I always assume it’s going to be close. They have these suppression, the fakers back there, they have the suppression polls where they interview many more Democrats than they do Republicans. Doug and I were talking about it and they take out registered voters. It’s not registered. They say, “Most likely to vote voters.” That’s what, most likely registered, they’re dead, they’re old, they’re not going to go, they’re not going to do anything. Be careful with your ballots, but get out there.

  (41:45)
November 3rd is the biggest date, one of the biggest dates in your life, in many cases, frankly, it’s the most important date of your life. One other thing we’ve done lot. We’ve gotten rid of a lot of nonsense from Obama, like the Paris Accord that costs us tens of billions of dollars and gave us nothing. We’ve gotten rid of so many different things that you have no idea, but you know what? If we don’t win, they can put it back, and with the things that we did put in, which are many, many, many things, many things, our military, our vets, everything, with all of the things that we put in, it’s like a tree, it takes a little while to grab on. You transplant it. It’s got to grab on.

  (42:29)
If we have four more years, there’s nothing that they can do. Our country is sailing. our country is sailing. So Yuma, thank you very much. Arizona, thank you very much. Thank you for all your support. We love you. We will never ever let you down. We will never let you down. Governor, thank you. Martha, go out and win. Go out and win. Vote McSally. Thank you everybody.

