

 (11:27)
Good afternoon folks. Sorry I’m a little late. I was a mesmerized. I was walking out of the office, that listening to an interview of former General Barry McCaffrey and Bill Cohen, former Secretary of Defense. Before I begin, I want to speak a little bit to what they talked about and the revelations about President Trump’s disregard for our military and our veterans. Quite frankly, if what is written in the Atlantic is true, it’s disgusting. At affirms what most of us believe to be true, that Donald Trump is not fit to do the job of President, to be the Commander in Chief. The President reportedly said, and I emphasize reportedly, said that those who sign up to serve, instead of doing something more lucrative are suckers. Let me be real clear. When my son was an Assistant US Attorney and he volunteered to go to Kosovo, when the war is going on as a civilian, he wasn’t a sucker.

 (12:46)
When my son volunteered and joined the United States military, as the Attorney General and went to Iraq for a year, won the Bronze Star and other commendations, he wasn’t a sucker. The service men and women he served with, particularly those who did not come home, were not losers. If these statements are true, the President should humbly apologize to every Gold Star Mother and Father and every Blue Star Family that he’s denigrated and insulted. Who the heck does he think he is? Is it true? Well, we’ve heard from his own mouth, his characterizations of an American hero, John McCain as a loser in 2015. Donald Trump said he was not a war hero. I like people who weren’t captured. Well good for him. And his dismissal of the traumatic brain injury suffered by troops serving in Iraq, as mere headaches, not too long ago. He stood by failing-

 (14:02)
He stood by failing, failing to take action or even raise the issue with Vladimir Putin while the Kremlin puts bounties on the heads of American troops in Afghanistan. It’s a sacred duty and you’re tired of hearing me say this. Those of you who’ve been covering me for years know. I get in trouble for saying it, but I’m going to say it again. We have many obligations as a government. We only have one truly sacred obligation. Equipped and support those who we send into harm’s way, care for their families while they’re gone, and care for them when they are home. That’s the only truly sacred obligation the government has. Duty, honor, country. These are values that drive our service members. It’s an all voluntary outfit. President Trump is demonstrated he has no sense of service, no loyalty to any cause other than himself. If I have the honor of being the next commander in chief, I will ensure that our American heroes know I’ll have their backs, honor their sacrifice. And those who’ve been injured will be in military parades. I’m always cautioned not to lose my temper. This may be as close as I come in this campaign. Just a marker of how deeply President Trump and I disagree about the role of the president of the United States of America. The August jobs report came out this morning. And I’m grateful for everyone who found work again and found a glimmer of hope that brings them back from the edge, but there is real cause for concern as well. The pace of the job gains in August was slower than July, significantly slower than in May and June. More and more temporary layoffs are turning into permanent layoffs. 28 million people filed for unemployment. And after six months in the pandemic, we’re less than halfway back to where we were with 11 million, 11.5 million Americans not getting their jobs back. We’re still down 720, 000 manufacturing jobs. In fact, Donald Trump may be the only president of modern history to leave office with fewer jobs than when he took office.

 (17:14)
I’ve talked to a lot of real working people, ask them. They feel like they’re being left behind. Ask them, how do they feel about the economy coming back? You’ll find they don’t feel it. And that’s why I’m here today, to thank Paul Calistro and his team for hosting us at West End Neighborhood House here in Wilmington. Paul, your continued tradition of doing God’s work through this community is important. It’s been around for more than 130 years. Through pandemics, wars, depressions. West End has been here for generations of people who are just looking for a chance, not a handout. Just a fair shot at a good job, a safe place to live, and a better life to pass down to their kids.

 (18:05)
This is a special place for the Biden family. My daughter, Ashley, a social worker, was a caseworker here helping young people who are aging out of foster care. When my son was the Attorney General, Beau came here, right here, to learn more about job training programs for those working toward a GED and a certificate for a good paying job. When I was senator and vice president, there were plenty of economists I had around me to talk about every aspect of the economy. But I always think about the people who walked through the doors here. Working people, white, Black, brown, Latino. What are they doing? Are they okay? I knew if they’re okay, they walk through these doors, the economy was doing okay. If they weren’t okay, we weren’t doing well.

 (18:58)
That’s what we should be thinking about is this latest jobs report. But the report reinforces the worst fears and painful truths. The economic inequities that began before the downturn have only worsened under this failed presidency. When the crisis started, we all hope for a few months of a shutdown would be followed by a rapid economic turnaround. No one thought they’d lose their job for good or see small businesses shut down en masse. But that kind of recovery requires leadership, leadership we didn’t have and still don’t have. And as a result, economists are starting to call this recession a K-shaped recession, which is a fancy phrase for what’s wrong with everything about Trump’s presidency. The K means those at the top are seeing things go up. And those in the middle and below are seeing things go down and get worse. It’s no surprise because at root of this is the fact that Trump has mismanaged the COVID crisis. And that’s why it’s a K-shaped pandemic.

 (20:10)
First, the president’s chaotic mismanagement of the pandemic is still holding us back. Compared to other major industrial countries in Europe and Asia, during the pandemic, our unemployment rate is still more than double, while other nations have only gone up by half. Why? Because the president has botched the COVID response, botched it badly. I’ve said from the beginning we can’t deal with an economic crisis until you beat the pandemic. You can’t have an economic comeback when almost 1000 Americans die each day from COVID, when the death toll was reached about 200,000, when more than six million Americans have been infected, when million more worry about getting sick and dying, and schools and businesses try to reopen.

 (21:04)
We all know it didn’t have to be this bad. It didn’t have to be this bad to begin with if the president just did his job, if he just took the virus seriously early on in January and February as it spread around the globe, if he just took the steps we needed back in March and April, institute widespread testing and tracing to control the virus, if he provided clear national scientific-based guidance to state and local authorities, if he just set a good example like social distancing and wearing a mask. It’s not too much to ask. It’s almost like he doesn’t care. It doesn’t affect him because it doesn’t affect him or his class of friends.

 (21:48)
Anyone with a big enough checkbook can get rapid tests on demand. If you don’t, you might have to wait in line for hours and wait for weeks to get your result, if you can get them at all. You have the kind of job where you can work from a laptop at home remotely, risking getting COVID is very small at work. This job report shows that 37 million people reported teleworking in August. But if you work in an assembly line or check out counter or a meat packing plant or drive a truck or deliver packages, you’re at much greater risk. And the job report shows that more than 27 million workers reported that they couldn’t work or lost hours because their employer had to close or lost business due to the pandemic.

 (22:41)
If you can hire a private tutor or have a live-in childcare, you can balance being a parent and remote schooling. If you can’t, you have to do your job and be a teacher all at once. Jill and I have held briefings on reopening school safety two days ago, asking the question as we hear so many parents call and ask us, educators as well who feel like they’re in an impossible situation. What are they supposed to do with our children when the president has made it so hard for schools to reopen safely? What’s the alternative when it’s devastating to keep them isolated from their friends and their support systems? I also said earlier this week, to the shock of many, we have lost more cops this year to COVID than on patrol. Just a reminder how an already dangerous job, law enforcement, has gotten more dangerous because of Trump’s mismanagement.

 (23:49)
What may be just as shocking is many other jobs have also become dangerous due to COVID. Being a healthcare worker is now more dangerous than ever. We’ve lost hundreds of them this year because they weren’t protected from COVID on the job. Being a meat packer is more dangerous than ever. So many have died due to getting COVID at work. Work for waitresses and waiters and transit workers all have become more dangerous, with so many dying of COVID. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what he says or what he claims, you are not safer in Donald Trump’s America. You’re not safe in Donald Trump’s America where people are dying at a rate last seen when Americans were fighting in World War II. Donald Trump’s malpractice during this pandemic has made being a working American a life or death work. And while there is a disproportionate impact on Black, Latino, and Asian Americans and Native Americans working class communities, white working class communities are being hit hard as well.

 (24:59)
Opioid deaths, for example, are up during the pandemic. Another crisis that Trump continues to all but ignore. In the meantime, Trump and his friends have strong views about what the rest of America should do. Quote, “Cut unemployment benefits to force people to go back to their jobs,” end of quote. “Defund social security and eliminate Obamacare in the middle of a pandemic,” end of quote. Reopen public schools without resources or guidance. Reopen main street business without protection for workers so corporations can continue to soar. This is their plan?

 (25:43)
Second and similarly, the economic pain remains unrelenting for millions of working people of every race and background aren’t getting relief they need. Meanwhile, wealthy are doing just fine, some better than ever. This divergence in fortunes is unique to any recession in recent memory. And the painful truth is we just have a president who just doesn’t see it. He doesn’t feel it. He doesn’t understand. He just doesn’t care. He thinks if the stock market is up, then everything’s fine. If his wealthy friends and donors are doing well, then everything’s doing well. If corporations see their valuations rising, then they must be hiring. But the best economists know what I know. I have learned growing up in Scranton and Claymont, Delaware up the road, places where folks aren’t invested in the market like wealthy Americans. A measure of our economic success is the quality of life of the American people.

 (26:54)
And if your stocks soar as families teeter on the brink of hunger and homelessness and our president calls that success, what does that say about what he values? When you see the world in such a narrow prism, it’s no wonder he doesn’t see nearly 30 million Americans on unemployment, one in six small businesses that closed right now. He doesn’t understand what life is like for people walking by their boarded up shops, educators afraid that doing their job, that job they love, will bring the virus home to the people they love, or of parents searching for health insurance now that the furlough has turned into a layoff. It’s no wonder he doesn’t see the single mom forced to wait in the three hour food line so for the first time in her life, so she can feed her family because she’s now part of the one in six households with children that don’t have enough to eat. He wants us to believe that we’re doing better, to keep it up and not-

 (28:03)
… that we’re doing better, to keep it up and not notice that this remains the worst economic situation since the Great Depression and our country face the historic divergence in our way of life. Which gets me to my third and final point and what the American people really need to understand, all the pain and suffering stems from President Trump’s failure to lead, his sheer inability and willingness to bring people together, he likes to sign executive orders, actions for photo ops, but they’re ill-conceived and could do more harm than good. He says, “Protecting renters from eviction,” that’s what he’s doing, but he’s not giving them any support to pay the rent when it comes due. Millions of Americans, all will be left with a terrible choice between eviction and living in the streets or paying back rent they simply don’t have when there was an answer offered and rejected. He says he’s continuing to provide enhanced unemployment insurance payments, but he cut the amount that everyone on it receive, leaves them on the edge when it runs out in a few weeks or sooner.

 (29:21)
He should be doing his job of calling congressional leaders together immediately to get a deal and deliver real results for the American people. This is the first president in the middle of a crisis I’ve never seen has called Congress into the Oval Office. If I were president, that’s what I’d do and I’d get it done like previous presidents. Rentals, food, unemployment assistance, tens of millions struggling Americans, student loan reliefs, small business support, and aid to schools and state governments that are going bankrupt. And as long as this pandemic and the economic catastrophe persist, no one should have their water or power cut off because they can’t afford to pay the bill. Bottom line, Mr. President, do your job, get off your golf course and out of the sand bunker, call the leaders together in the Oval Office, sit with them and make a deal. Make a deal that delivers for working Americans and eases their anxiety and pain. In July, I laid out my Build Back Better plan for an economy that works for everyone. Over the next three weeks I’ll be laying out the sharp contrast my plan has with the president’s non-plans. I’ll be asking American people three basic questions, who can handle a pandemic? Who can keep their promises? And who cares about and will fight for working families? Like the people here at West End, throughout this pandemic, they found their way to keep the center open safely and provide for critical services. No one here has been laid off. They adjusted their spaces for social distancing. They started a lending program to help local businesses, hair salons, and other small businesses. They continue their childcare services, which is critical for so many working families.

 (31:25)
By pure courage, heart, and grit, they never give up and they never give in and they pursue the full promise for America. That’s the story of the people of this community and this country, that’s who we are. Give ordinary American just half a chance and they never let the country down, they’ll do extraordinary things, they’ll never let us down unlike the current president. And unlike the current president I won’t let you down either, that’s what this election is about, helping people unite, get together, move this country back in the direction that we can be, there’s nothing beyond our capacity, nothing, if we just do it together. Thank you all, and I now take your questions. I guess… Are you calling on people or how am I… I don’t have a list, so you go ahead and call.

Speaker 1: (32:21)
[crosstalk 00:32:19]. Isaac.

Isaac: (32:26)
Thank you, sir. This morning in reference to that article in The Atlantic, in a call convened by your campaign, Khizr Khan said that the comments demonstrated that President Trump’s life is a testament to selfishness and that his soul is that of a coward. You’ve talked about this as a different view of how you see the job as the president, but when you hear these remarks, suckers, losers, recoiling from amputees, what does it tell you about President Trump’s soul and the life he leads?

 (32:59)
I’m going to try to be measured in my response. If it’s true, and based on other things he said I believe the article is true, I’d ask you all the rhetorical question, how do you feel? How would you feel if you had a kid in Afghanistan right now? How would you feel if you lost a son, daughter, husband, wife? How would you feel, for real? I know that’s not your job to express that feeling, but you know in your heart, you know in your gut, it’s deplorable. As I’ve said many times, I’ll say again, these folks are the backbone of America, they’re the heart, the soul, the grit, that’s what patriotism is about. I’ve probably… I’ve just never been as disappointed in my whole career with a leader that I’ve worked with president or otherwise, that if the article is true and it appears to be based on other things he’s said, it is absolutely damnable, it is a disgrace.

Isaac: (34:37)
Let’s get on a somewhat related topic. What would you say to the supporters of the QAnon, the people who believe in that conspiracy, what they think is true about America, that there’s sex trafficking and a conspiracy against President Trump? And what would you say to President Trump for not rejecting that conspiracy and the people who believe in it?

 (35:06)
I’ve been a big supporter of mental health, I’d recommend that people who believe it maybe should take advantage while it still exists in the Affordable Care Act. It’s bizarre, totally bizarre. And now, have you guys found that planeload of people in uniforms, and weapons, and flying around? I mean, have you found them yet? Is there anybody even from… By the way, I respect conservatism and liberal points of view in the press. Anybody found that plane? What in God’s name are we doing? Look at how it makes us look around the world, it’s mortified, it’s embarrassing, and it’s dangerous. If the president doesn’t know better, which I… He has to know better, and my Lord we’re in much more trouble than I ever thought we were. It’s bizarre.

 (36:09)
And this is a case where I’ve been surprised, pleased, but surprised with folks I’ve had political arguments with like the former governor of Michigan coming out and endorse me, all the Republicans are endorsing me, they’ll reach where, that this can’t go on, I mean, this cannot go on. It’s a deconstruction of a democratic system, they know it. So, I just… I’ll conclude with what you heard me say times before, the words of a president matter, even a lousy president, it gives succor, it gives encouragement to people who are spouting irrational views that no one has even close to ever presuming or showing ever existed. And it’s done for a simple reason, from the very beginning he’s understood the only way he could win the first time and can win this time is he fundamentally divides the nation, puts the nation… Divides us so we’re at each other’s throats, that’s not who we are.

Isaac: (37:43)
Thank you, sir.

Speaker 1: (37:43)
[inaudible 00:37:44].

Speaker 2: (37:55)
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Last night, President Trump mocked you for wearing a mask and said that this is a sign that you must have some ‘big issues’. He says this even though he knows that according to scientists and public health officials, wearing masks saves lives. I wonder if you worry that this kind of language that comes from the President of the United States could deter some Americans who are tuning into him to not wear masks.

 (38:22)
Well, I wear [inaudible 00:38:24] is a big issue, I’m a smart fellow, I listen to scientists, this is not a game, life and death. Reports that we’re going to have maybe… There’s some reports that say another 100,000 dead, as many as a 100,000 dead, more by the end of the year. I mean, I don’t get it. I mean, I just… Anyway, it’s hard to respond to something so idiotic.

Speaker 2: (39:03)
Okay. Before my second question, just quickly, have you been tested now for COVID-19?

 (39:07)
Yes, I have.

Speaker 2: (39:08)
How many times?

 (39:09)
I’ve been tested once with a deep test, and I’m going to continue to be testing on a regular basis.

Speaker 1: (39:17)
Okay, next question.

Speaker 2: (39:17)
Could I just ask quickly about Attorney General William Barr saying on CNN this week, he said that his assessment right now is that China poses the most aggressive threat to US elections even more than Iran or Russia, do you believe him? Is that also your understanding based on the intelligence briefings that you have received?

 (39:37)
No, it’s not consistent with the briefings I’ve received. And he’s a lousy enough attorney general, but he’s a really bad intelligence officer.

Speaker 2: (39:48)
It’s not consistent because you believe [crosstalk 00:39:51].

 (39:51)
Because I believe what I’ve been told, and you all know it. I mean, look, it’s… You even have office like Facebook taking somewhat… Look, it’s just… There are a lot of countries around the world, I think, would be happy to see our elections destabilized, but the one who’s working the hardest, most consistently, and never has led up is Russia. And again, it’s unfair to say to you guys, but ask yourself the rhetorical question, what is he so afraid of Vladimir Putin [inaudible 00:12:30]? I mean, what’s the problem? I mean, nothing, it’s almost obsequious. I mean… Anyway, I just want to make it clear, I believe any country that engages in any activity to delegitimize or impact on American elections is a direct violation of our sovereignty, and if I am President of United States, there will be a response.

Speaker 1: (41:13)
Great, next question.

Speaker 2: (41:13)
Thank you.

Speaker 1: (41:14)
[inaudible 00:41:15].

Speaker 3: (41:21)
Sir, it’s been a couple of weeks now since you announced Senator Harris as your running mate and we haven’t seen her out very much including yesterday in Kenosha, why is that? And what role do you see her playing in the final [crosstalk 00:13:33]?

 (41:32)
She’s been on the road, she’s out herself. The role is that, just like when Barack and I campaigned, we try to cover as much territory as we could, and both of us out campaigning. She is an incredibly competent candidate, she is doing a great job. There will be times where together, but there’s a lot of territory to cover. I talk with her almost every day, I speak with her, we work together, and I have great confidence in her. There’s nothing about not campaigning together, it’s about being able to cover more territory.

 (42:03)
… About not campaigning together. It’s about being able to cover more territory.

Speaker 3: (42:05)
And just as second question, do you know when you will have another COVID test? Do you have any planned, any future testing coming up?

 (42:12)
Well, what they’re doing is they’re going to do it on a regular basis because everyone on my service detail and people who come into the house with me, they’re all tested. I just, “Yes, sir.” Show up and put my head back, when they tell me.

Speaker 3: (42:29)
You don’t know when it’ll be, the next one?

 (42:31)
Pardon me?

Speaker 3: (42:32)
You don’t know when the next one will be?

 (42:34)
I imagine it will be sometime this week. I just don’t know, but it will be a regular basis.

Speaker 3: (42:39)
Thank you.

Speaker 4: (42:39)
Go ahead.

Speaker 5: (42:46)
Thank you, sir. Let me ask you about another thing the president said last night. He once again, suggested to his supporters that they should consider voting twice, if they’re in one of those states that can allow you to request an absentee ballot. So you fill that out and then go try voting again in person. State officials have said it’s a felony in some cases, just curious what you make of it.

 (43:11)
It is a felony. It would be felony here in the state of Delaware. Look, I mean, how many times does this president have to suggest things and say things where you all, don’t just write, he’s a fraud. Not an opinion. Maybe we should delay the election. Maybe we should write in ballots are fraudulent, not a single bit of evidence. And I think it’s all designed to create so much chaos that no matter what the outcome of the election is that is thrown up in the air. That must be his reason because he says, and does things that no other president that I’m aware of in American history has ever done. And we all go, “Well, here’s another ridiculous, illegal, inappropriate thing he said, but he says so many of them, it doesn’t matter.” It just undermines the legitimacy of our democratic process and it’s dangerous.

Speaker 5: (44:33)
You said today is the angriest you’ve been as a presidential candidate, but you said you’re trying to restrain yourself. Aren’t there a lot of people out there who are supporting you or inclined to not vote for the president, who would say, “Why isn’t Joe Biden, angrier about all of this.”

 (44:53)
Because presidents United States should be presidential and should lead by example, as well as make clear exactly where they stand. Getting down in the gutter like the president does saying things that I’d be inclined, if we were behind a barn somewhere, it’d be a different thing. But that’s not the job of a president. The job of a president sets an example. My anger is real because I must tell you, I carry and I deliberately didn’t bring it with me today. The Delaware National Guard had a pin made up. That’s a gold star that was made up for my son, Beau, who didn’t die in the field. And I always carry it with me and I didn’t carry it today because I was worried that if I focus too much on it, that I would engage in some of the kind of language the president’s used. I mean, but I just think it is sick. It is deplorable. It is so un-American. It is so unpatriotic.

 (46:18)
And then watching him this morning while I was shaving and the TV on talking about he never said anything like that. He honored John McCain. He’s the reason why flags are flown at half mast. Oh, wasn’t that noble of him. He’s the same guy that when the ship went into harbor and made sure the USS McCain was covered, you couldn’t see it. He’s the same guy that denigrated John. He’s the same guy who did a similar thing where he talked about George H.W. Bush, he was shot down in the Pacific. I mean, but he just stands there. It’s almost pathological. I’ve never said anything like that. No ones been better than the military. I just got to focus on what has to be done, not what he did, what I do from here. What gets done from here.

Speaker 5: (47:22)
Thank you, sir.

Speaker 6: (47:26)
Thank you, Mr. Vice president, if I could follow up on Ed’s question about voting, we know the president has been attacking mail in voting he’s even now suggesting his supporters vote twice. We also know that Russia has been trying to sow doubt about the system. Are you concerned at all that this messaging may be working, that your supporters may give up on voting by mail because they’re concerned that it may be rigged?

 (47:47)
Yes, I am. That’s why I try not to talk about it too much because I’m playing into. The more we talk about it … There’s two things he wants us to talk about, is the election legitimate? And the whole country is up in flames. Everything’s burning, law and order because he doesn’t want to talk about anything, anything at all about the job he hasn’t done. And so it’s a conundrum. There’s a lot we could talk about in terms of the specifics that Russia is doing and not doing it. But when you do, all it does is undermine what people think may be legitimate. What I don’t want to have happen, I don’t want people reaching the point where you can understand sometimes. It’s not worth voting.

 (48:40)
It seems to me that one of the things that I keep trying to say to people is, “Go to, Iwillvote.com.” Iwillvote.com and figure out where you can vote, how you can vote. What’s available to you, where you could vote early, where you could vote in person, where it’s going to be safe for you, et cetera. Plan now, plan now. But the more chaos that is sewn here, it’s going to disincline people to show up. And in a sense, every time I speak about it, I feel like I’m playing into his game. Not do you agree with me, but does that make sense what I’m saying? So I think that’s all part of the deal.

Speaker 4: (49:29)
[inaudible 00:49:29].

Speaker 2: (49:29)
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Going back to the jobless report from this morning, you had acknowledged that less than half of the 22 million jobs that were lost the spring because of the pandemic have been recovered. What do you think the 1.4 million added back in August says about just the general direction of the economy?

 (49:58)
I think any job added back is positive. I think it matters to the people who got that job back. Maybe you all were raised in households like I was where my mom or dad was losing a job because of the economy, what’s going on in your community. You could feel the tension unease in the household, how it just, everything. Worrying about whether you can provide for your family. And then along the way, also look at the people who you’ve got … A couple million people out there close to, who are part time workers who still can’t make it, but are listed as employed. And a lot of them also are in the process of wondering whether or not. I mean, they’re a lot of people lined up in food lines. There are the people, many of them who have lost their healthcare, their health care provided by their employer.

 (51:03)
They’re the same people out there worrying, if this president is able to win in court and wipe out the entire Affordable Care Act and all the 100 million people with preexisting conditions, won’t be able to get insurance, even if they had the money. It’s just, the anxiety is enormous, is enormous. And look, again, I’m not being solicitous. Among the brightest people I’ve dealt with my whole career, have been the press, not a joke. You’re all extremely well educated. You’re well-read, you have significant backgrounds and the vast majority have tried to report the news, not just opinion, but I can’t believe that you don’t feel the same … Not Democrat, Republican. Okay.

 (52:04)
You don’t feel the same anxiety because you got a brother, a sister, a mother, a father, son, or a daughter who’s going through what you’re not, what we’re not. We have jobs. I don’t have a job now, but we have jobs. And so it’s a real concern. And I just think that this has moved beyond Democrat, Republican. I think it’s moved to trying to put this country back together again. So we can move.

Speaker 4: (52:39)
Thank you.

Speaker 7: (52:39)
Mrs. Garner, one more question on the economy, one more on the economy.

Speaker 4: (52:39)
Thank you guys, thank you.

Speaker 7: (52:39)
One more on the economy.

Speaker 8: (52:51)
Mr. Vice President can I ask [crosstalk 00:52:51].

Speaker 9: (52:51)
Pick one from a box for this guy. You like to engage.

 (52:51)
I like to engage.

Speaker 10: (52:55)
Mr. Vice President, if I may ask. President Trump has just announced Kosovo and Serbia deal. President Trump has just announced an economic normalization deal between Serbia and Kosovo. And part of that deal is Kosovo and Israel having diplomatic normalization. You have stated that you support a two state solution in the Middle East. Would you support more Muslim majority countries normalizing relations with Israel, even though it may mean that the Palestinians will lose leverage in their fight towards a two state solution?

 (53:30)
Well, first of all, I don’t know what the deal is you’re referring to. Okay. What I have argued relative to Serbia and Kosovo, is that Kosovo should be an independent country, not a part of Serbia. I’ve spent a lot of time there. And so I don’t know how … I assume that would reinforce that independence, but I don’t know, based on what’s being said. I think normalization of relations among countries is a by and large an almost every instance, a good thing to have a Muslim majority country normalizing relations with Israel. And in a generic sense seems positive to me, but I have to know the detail of what’s happening, what’s going on. And I don’t know that and it may, you may be right, that, that would cause the Palestinians to lose leverage in a decision on a two state solution. I’d have to look [crosstalk 00:54:36].

Speaker 10: (54:36)
In general, do you support more countries recognizing Israel?

 (54:39)
Oh, I do. Absolutely, I do. I do. And I think that’s the thing, recognizing Israel as an independent Jewish state. I think that’s important. But also, I believe that Israel has to be prepared to work toward a genuine two state solution. Thank you all very much.

Speaker 10: (54:58)
Thank you, Mr. Vice President.

Speaker 4: (54:59)
[crosstalk 00:54:59], thank you so much. [inaudible 00:55:29].

 (55:29)
[inaudible 00:55:29].

Speaker 11: (55:29)
[inaudible 00:55:29]?

 (55:29)
Sure. The answer is yes. It’s still a great nation.


 (23:18)
First of all, thank you for giving me the opportunity. And I hope, I don’t know how much time you have after I say a few words, maybe I can hear from more of you as well. But let me respond to a little bit of what I’ve heard so far. First of all, I can make a generic point. The words of a president matter. No matter if they’re good, bad, or indifferent, they matter. No matter how competent or incompetent a president is, they can send the nation to war, they can bring peace, they can make markets rise or fall, and they can do things that I’ve observed can make a difference just by what they say.

 (24:06)
I got out of law school and I moved back to Delaware. I had a partial scholarship to go away. We didn’t have a law school at the time in Delaware. I went to Syracuse Law School. When I came home from law school, what happened was my last semester, the only two political heroes I ever had, both were assassinated. Dr. King and Bobby Kennedy. Matter of fact, Kennedy was assassinated the day I graduated. I came home and my city is the only city in the United States of America occupied by the military since reconstruction for 10 months. Every single corner with someone, a military person standing with a drawn bayonet. Not a joke, 10 months. I had a job with a good law firm, a well known law firm, one of the oldest law firms in the state. And after awhile, I concluded that I was in the wrong place. They were good people, but I quit and became a public defender.



 (01:53)
Folks, welcome to the Queen Theater. I’m here today to talk about a crisis, a crisis being felt all across the United States of America. And Jill and I have just been briefed, as you know, in this room, by our public health and education experts about what it’s going to take to be able to reopen our schools safely and effectively.

 (02:23)
And back to school has always been a special time [inaudible 00:02:26] your families and mine, but particularly in mine because for all the years Jill and I were married, she was going back to school too as a teacher. Jill’s an educator and she’ll be the first one to tell you that this should be a season of promise for our country, times when classrooms are crackling with the possibilities of the new year, students’ hopes, and all about the future.

 (02:54)
But this year, we’re facing the most difficult circumstances and we’re seeing an awful lot of heart and a lot of grit from our educators, our students to try to rise to the occasion here, but our government hasn’t come up to that bar. They haven’t shown much grit at all or determination.

 (03:12)
Let me be clear. If President Trump and his administration had done their jobs early on with this crisis, America’s schools would be open and they’d be open safely. Instead, American families all across this country are paying the price for his failures and his administration’s failures.

 (03:34)
Like many of you, because you’re all reporters, you also have a lot of friends and you have children, and you’re probably hearing the same thing I’m hearing throughout this pandemic. They’re struggling to figure out how to do the right thing, but they’re worried. They’re worried like the devil. “What does it mean for my kids? Is this setting my child’s education back beyond just a semester? What impact will it have? How’s my child going to catch up? What if I’m not doing enough to help my child succeed?” All those questions, the self-doubt that’s been engaged. President Trump may not think this a national emergency, but I think going back to school for millions of children and the impacts on their families and the community is a national emergency. I believe that’s what it is.

 (04:27)
Protecting our students, our educators, our communities, getting our schools open safely and effectively, this is a national emergency, but President Trump still doesn’t have any real plan for how to open our schools safely, no real plan for how to help parents feel secure for their children. He’s offering nothing but failure and delusions.

 (04:54)
From the start to finish, the American families and our children are paying the price for his failures; failure to take this virus seriously early on in January and February and it spread around the globe, failure to take steps we needed back in March and April to get this pandemic under controlled institute widespread testing and tracing to control the spread, failure to provide clear national science-based guidelines to state and local authorities, and failure to model even basic responsibility like socially distancing and wearing a mask, and failure to make sure educators and administrators have the equipment, the resources, and the training they need to open safe and under the circumstances we find now.

 (05:44)
Donald Trump and Betsy DeVos, Secretary DeVos, haven’t stepped up and we’re all seeing the results. Millions of students are now starting the new school year in the same way they finished the last one, at home. At home. Parents are doing their best, but more and more, were finding themselves at wit’s end, struggling to balance work and childcare and educational duties, or worrying about their lost paycheck and how they’ll make ends meet while trying to keep their kids on track with remote learning.

 (06:23)
Educators are taking on countless hours of additional training to learn how to use remote learning tools so they can still be there for their students, but they’re worried about all the kids who used to count on our schools, all those children who need it so badly, and particularly those children who need more than the education and they provide their meals and safe places to spend the day.

 (06:51)
You know, we’re all concerned about making sure COVID-19 doesn’t further exacerbate the disparities, the disparities that already have existed in our educational system for so many poor children and in so many communities of color. It’s unacceptable and it can’t go on like this. We all want our schools to reopen safely with a plan that prioritizes the health of our students and our educators and staff alike.

 (07:19)
I laid out my plans back in June and July, a roadmap for how to open and reopen safely and effectively. You can read them by going to JoeBiden.com. We need straight forward common sense solutions, but Trump refuses to act, starving schools have the needed funding, funding they need now. Now. They needed it beginning of the summer. Now, Trump’s FEMA director is cutting schools loose. Just yesterday, FEMA announced that after helping three districts, I think it was three, they announce that they’re not going to help pay for cloth masks, other PPE for school settings, cleaning, those basic health needs, or sanitize, everything from the lavatories to the classrooms, and safety costs for schools that don’t qualify for emergency assistance.

 (08:19)
This is emergency, Mr. President. This is an emergency. And Donald Trump and his FEMA should treat it as one.

 (08:28)
If I were president today, I’d direct FIM to make sure that our kids K through 12 get full access to disaster relief and emergency assistance under the Stafford Act. I’d make sure that PPE and sanitation supplies for school qualify as emergency protective measures, which is a phrase they use, to fully be eligible for federal assistance.

 (08:52)
On top of that, I’d be working with the leaders of Congress now, today, to pass emergency packages for schools so they have the resources they need in order to be able to open safely, money for ventilation. I heard that a lot when I had all those health care experts up on the Zoom. Money for ventilation and other health measures, but also more money to hire more teachers. Every recommendation we got was they should be dividing into pods, smaller classes. Smaller classes mean more educators are needed. Keeping classes socially distanced, small. Money for more psychologists and counselors. I introduced legislation a long time ago calling for [inaudible 00:09:42] I proposed legislation a long time ago.

 (09:46)
We have one school psychologist for every 1,507 children in school. And the healthcare, the mental health that our children need now, the anxiety they’re feeling at home in going to school, not being able to-

 (10:03)
… at home, in going to school, not being able to go to school, the nation’s superintendents of schools have estimated that they’ll need at least $200 billion to support K through 12 schools throughout the year for safe reopening. And we need the money to hire educators as well for our four-year colleges and universities, for community colleges, for HBCUs, for minority-serving institutions. Democratic leaders are ready to get this done. They’ve already proposed legislation. Mr. President, where are you? Where are you? Why aren’t you working on this? We need emergency support funding for our schools and we need it now. Mr President, that’s your job. That’s your job. That’s what you should be focused on now. Getting our kids back to school safely. Keeping schools safely able to remain open once they open. Not whipping up fear and division.

 (11:08)
Not inciting violence in our streets. Get off Twitter and start talking to the congressional leaders in both parties. Invite them to the Oval Office, the Oval Office, and stop your boast about never being seemed at what you can do anything. You always talk about your ability to negotiate. Negotiate a deal. A deal for somebody other than yourself. Now I’m happy to take questions you may have, I guess staff’s going to call on whoever. Follow, fire away.

Speaker 4: (11:47)
Great. MJ.

Speaker 1: (11:56)
Vice President, two quick questions for you if I may. First, ahead of your trip to Kenosha, Wisconsin tomorrow, last week your running mate, Senator Harris, said that the officer who shot Jacob Blake, based on what she has seen should be charged. Do you agree with her? And do you also believe the same for the officers who were involved in the death of Breonna Taylor?

 (12:17)
I think we should let the judicial system work its way. I do think there’s a minimum need to be charged, the officers, and as well as Breonna Taylor and I might add, by the way, I think what happened in Portland where one of the Trump guys riding along in vans and inciting responses were shooting rubber bullets, I guess, or paint balls. Apparently there was someone shot by someone in the crowd with a bullet, killed. I think that person should meet legal requirements, whatever that calls for. He should be investigated and it should follow through on what needs to be done. Let the judicial system work. Let’s make sure justice is done.

Speaker 1: (13:04)
Just probably on a different topic, there’s a new book by the New York Times by Michael Schmidt that says that when president Trump made an unannounced visit to Walter Reed hospital in 2019, Vice President Pence was told to be on standby to take over in case President Trump had to receive anesthesia. Pence said last night that he doesn’t recall being told that. As vice president, were you ever told to be on standby or given any kind of special alert when President Obama was going in for a medical appointment? And I also just wonder whether you have any concerns about the fact that that Walter Reed visit that President Trump made, it didn’t follow prior protocol about presidential visits for medical examinations.

 (13:45)
I’m not going to speculate on what it means always, but I can say is that nothing this administration does is normal. And so I’m not being facetious when I say that. So who in God’s name knows what it was all about? I just don’t know. I don’t know. And I’m not going to speculate. I’ll let the experts do that. And so, and the only time that I have been on notice is when the president’s out of the country and I’m in the country, that not that I should wait for something to be immediately be aware of anything, but that’s something that might be called for. It wasn’t called for.

Speaker 1: (14:28)
Thank you.

Speaker 2: (14:39)
Thank you Mr. Vice President. On your visit to Kenosha tomorrow, local democratic officials including the governor had previously discouraged President Trump from visiting and just yesterday, the president of the local NAACP said he didn’t want to see either of the candidates, including yourself visit. That this is such a sensitive situation in the city. Why is now the right time for you to go to Kenosha And what do you hope to accomplish tomorrow?

 (15:00)
Well, I have already spoken to all the leaders up there and although I have an outstanding call with the governor who we’ve dealt with the staff because, and there’s been overwhelming requests that I do come. Because what we want to do is we’ve got to heal. We’ve got to put things together, bring people together. And so my purpose in going will be to do just that, to be a positive influence on what’s going on, talk about what need be done and try to see if there’s a beginning of a mechanism to bring the folks together.

 (15:40)
We have to heal. This is about making sure that we move and we move forward. And so I’ve gotten advice from sitting members of the Congress and the Senate as well to go and that I should go. I’m not going to do anything other than meet with and meetings with community leaders, as well as business people and other folks in law enforcement. And to see, to start to talk about what has to be done. I’m not going to tell Kenosha what they have to do but we have to do together. The idea that we are saying the president’s current people retreat to their corners and keep this movie is just a mistake. I spent my whole life, including in this city you’re in right now, bringing people together. Bringing the community and police officers together. Bringing business leaders and civic leaders together. And so that’s my purpose in going.

Speaker 2: (16:42)
And on the fact that you’re traveling to Wisconsin at all. I believe this is only the third time in the last few months, since the onset of the pandemic, that you’ll be on a plane. You’ve talked about how you want to make sure you’ll follow all the advice of your doctors in terms of campaigning safely. But the question we keep hearing from voters, from others, is why aren’t you out there more. You may be aware the president was calling into question your campaign’s scheduled today. How far are you willing to push the envelope of what’s safe in order to get your message out and to be among the voters, speak to them directly?

 (17:12)
Well, I think my message is getting out based on what the polling data shows and the millions of people who’ve watched, what I’ve had to say and the circumstance which I’ve said it. But I would like to get out more. But I think a president has a responsibility to set examples, set the right example for how to get out. Not go out and not wear a mask and not to have large crowds of people standing next to one of their not wearing masks, not being a potential called room for significant outbreaks of COVID. And so what I’ve done is I’ve met with, via what I did this morning with the medical experts.

 (17:58)
And so we’ve worked out a protocol where, how I get in the plane, what kind of plane I get on, how it’s sanitized, how I engage people. It’s like when I’m engaging all of you everywhere I go. It’s always at a safe distance and everybody’s wearing masks. And the vast majority of people that I’m meeting with have been, had come into my home and staff and the like, they’re all tested as well. So I’m just trying to set the example, wearing the protective gear, the mask, which I have with me. I’m able at this distance to take it off, number one. Number two, making sure that we proceed in a way with adequate social distancing and do it the right way.

Speaker 2: (18:43)
And last quickly they announced the format and the moderators of the presidential debates today. NBC’s Kristen Welker, we’re batting cleanup for that last presidential debate. Is there anything, you’ve said you’ll participate, is there anything that could dissuade you from participating and how have you began to prepare?

 (18:58)
Well, I began to prepare by going over what the president has said, multiple lies he’s told. What I’d love to have as a crawler at the bottom of the screen of fact checker when we speak. If we really want him to do something, I think that would make a great, great debate. If everything both of us said was instantly fact-checked by an agreed to group of people out there then we move forward. But probably wouldn’t get very far in the debate. Now I’m looking forward to debating the President and I’m going to lay out as clearly as I can, what I think we have to do to bring this country back and build it back better. And I’m looking forward to the debate.

Speaker 3: (19:41)
That’s great. Thank you [inaudible 00:19:44].

Speaker 5: (19:50)
Thank you Mr. Vice president. One of the things that I’ve heard a lot from voters across the country is that a lot of them are worried and concerned about some of the ongoing violence we’ve seen in cities in this country, including the situation in Kenosha, Wisconsin where you’re headed-

Speaker 5: (20:03)
… and in cities in this country, including the situation in Kenosha, Wisconsin, where you’re headed. I am curious, obviously you are not president now and Donald Trump is, but I’m curious if you were president, what would you do to ensure that people are kept safe in situations like these?

 (20:15)
First of all, I wouldn’t incite violence. I condemn it when it occurred. I would move to, look, the vast majority of police officers are good, decent, honorable women and men. They pin on that shield every morning and they have a right to go home that night safely. The vast majority. But just those who are not good cops, all the police I’ve dealt with my whole life, and I’ve been dealing with, I’ve gotten overwhelming support from law enforcement through my whole career. They’re the ones that want to get rid of the bad cops, even more than anybody else does because it reflects on them. Number one. Number two, I would make sure everybody understood, if I were president, that any violence, any violence, protesting is a right and free speech is a right, but to engage in violence, burning, looting, the rest, in the name of protesting is wrong, and that persons should be held accountable for their actions.

 (21:20)
What I’d be doing is I’d be bringing people together in the White House, right now. I’d be having that Police Commission set up. I’d have law enforcement at the table. I’d have the community at the table. I’d have people and saying, “How do we get through this? What do we do to deal with this?” Because I believe the vast majority of the community at writ large, as well as law enforcement, want to straighten things out, not inflamed things, but this president keeps throwing gasoline on the fire, every place he goes.

 (21:50)
I noticed, and I didn’t watch much of it, but I watched the reports from all of you, not all, I from the press. When he was asked about what should be done with regard to a young man shot in the back seven times, in front of his children, I didn’t hear much of anything come from him. What should we be doing about it? He went down the line. I wish he’d take responsibility. As much as he’d like to be running against somebody else, he’s running against me, Joe Biden. The fact is, that he is not acting very responsible.

Speaker 6: (22:24)
[inaudible 00:22:37]. Mr. Vice-president.

 (22:33)
I’m sorry. Am I, over here? Okay.

Speaker 7: (22:40)
You’ve outlined your plan to reopen schools safely. But what about what happens in the interim? Right now, millions of parents across the country are facing this very impossible task, of trying to work full time-

 (22:51)
That’s right.

Speaker 7: (22:51)
And help their children full-time to learn virtually. What is your message to these parents and what can you do to help them while you work to reopen schools?

 (23:00)
Help is on the way. I’ve laid out a clear plan for childcare, a clear plan for starting early education as well, so three and four and five year olds are in school. But I’m not President right now. What we should be doing, is we should be providing for more help for people who in fact, are trying to juggle the choice between, do I stay home with my three, four or five-year old and take care of them in the middle of this COVID problem? Or, do I go to work and earn a salary? What do I do? That’s why we have, I have a major initiative to deal with childcare and eldercare, so people can be adequately paid to come and take care of folks, children, as well as the elderly that you may be taking care of a parent, a husband and wife may be taking care of, as well as making sure that those folks are able to get back to work.

 (23:57)
That’s why focusing on daycare centers and making sure they’re safe and healthy now ,is equally as important as dealing with, almost as equally important as dealing with schools. We should be providing all of the PPE and all of the safety that is necessary in sanitary capacity, to allow them to open. Hundreds of them have been opening, because some states have gone in and done that. There should be universal guidance coming from the President of United States of America. There should be basic standards to how, in fact, and what circumstances you can safely open a daycare center, you can safely open a childcare center.

 (24:35)
In addition to that, in the future, the idea, this has brought home a number of glaring problems we have in America, this whole pandemic, and what’s happened in terms of jobs. The idea that we’re in a situation where you have so many parents who have to make the difficult choice as a single parent or both working parents, to decide whether one gives up their salary and stays home with a child under the age of five or six, and/or somehow leaves them with somebody that there’s not particularly qualified and goes to work so they can earn a living, is a choice that is not, we shouldn’t be making.

 (25:12)
We’re the only industrialized country in the world that forces people to make that kind of choice. There should be, no one should have to pay more than 7% of their income to provide for childcare and be able to go to work. This is something that is a major element of my Build Back Better program. But in the meantime, in the meantime, the most important thing that can be done is have CDC issue really straightforward guidelines, on what circumstances you should be able to open up your daycare center or your childcare center now. There should be clear standards and states should have the wherewithal to be able to go out and inspect those facilities, now.

 (25:56)
But, one I haven’t mentioned, and I think it warrants mentioning. One of the things we did, remember when we inherited the great recession and we were going into the tank, heading off the cliff or heading into a depression, I was able to convince three Republicans had changed their vote. We ended up with the so-called Recovery Act, which spent over $800 billion in 18 months, kept us from going into depression. But what did we do? We spent almost, we spent billions of dollars, making sure that states were able to maintain their essential workers. Everyone from their fire departments, their school teachers, their doctors, their nurses, their public hospitals.

 (26:41)
Now what’s happening? This Republican administration will not support that and the Republican leadership in the United States Senate will not support it. So, what’s happening? We don’t have that help. It’s not out there. States are in real trouble and to quote my good friend, Mitch McConnell, he says, “Let the states go, bankrupt.”States have to balance their budgets, under the law. Communities, counties, cities, they have to balance their budget. There’s a reason why the federal government is able to run a deficit, to compensate in times of real economic crisis and what’s happening, nothing, nothing. Guess what? We came out of that recession with the longest spurt of economic growth in any administration in American history. But these guys don’t, I don’t [inaudible 00:27:33] and I could go on. Businesses, look at the money that was passed under the CARES Act, for businesses, small businesses be able to stay open. You have tens of thousands of going out of business, many of them permanently. Why? Because, the money didn’t get to small businesses. They’re not open. We should be dealing with those businesses that have been burned out and those and damaged. We should be finding federal help for those businesses to get back on their feet.

 (28:01)
But this administration seems to think it’s all of a sudden going to go away, like angel dust is going to be sprayed around. Everything’s going to be okay. I just don’t get it. They have to know better. They have to know better. We had an example, just the last administration, how much good you can do and how much growth you can generate. I just don’t get these guys. I really, don’t. Not a joke. I’ve been doing this a long time, but I’ve never seen a president lack as much leadership, unwilling, an inability to make a deal. You got about, I’m told the reason why they can’t get anything done in the Republican Congress, is 20 members of the United States Senate saying under no circumstances, will they raise the deficit at all.

 (28:47)
Well, that’s wonderful. We’re in a position we’re in now. Look at other countries. They’re doing one hell of a lot better. Yet, we still have over, what’s it up to, 186,000 people dead. Over 6 million, was it, 6, ,000, whatever the number is, that have contracted the disease and no end in sight. It’s just irresponsible. Talk about a no-nothing Congress. On the Republican side. No, not even the president. I mean, I don’t get it. I really don’t get it, but it’s going to change, come January, God willing.

Speaker 8: (29:24)
Sir, what do you say to teachers, who are afraid to return to the classroom, even if the safety protocols that you’ve proposed are in place?

 (29:35)
Well, I say that I understand their concern, because so many of the teachers also have other preexisting conditions that lend itself to the fact that if they were to contract the COVID disease, COVID-19, that they would be very susceptible to be in real trouble. It’s understandable why they’re doing it. But the first thing to do, is make sure that all the protective capacity that we have available to us is made available. And then-

 (30:03)
Capacity that we have available to us, is made available and then let the districts make choice about whether or not they open fully, whether they rotate and whether or not those teachers are able to be able to teach from home and remote learning. But it’s really understandable why they would, look what’s happened in this coed crisis so far. A hundred million, I mean 100,000 people have died who were above the age of 65. 100,000 out of the 200 and some that have died or not 200 and some, it’s 189 or whatever it is now. It estimated, I heard today, the estimates range from two significant universities. One, there’s going to be as many as 239, I think. And another one said by December, 312. I don’t know that, but it’s going to go higher. And so, I don’t understand why it’s a political problem? What is the politics about not being willing to go in and help provide the protective capacity for people to be able to go back to work and don’t go to school? I can’t fathom it.

Speaker 9: (31:22)
Can I have the last question?

Speaker 10: (31:32)
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You talked today about reopening schools. Wanted to ask you about something you said last week about the potential of having to shut down the economy again. You were asked if you’d be willing to shut it down if you’re health experts advise you to do so and you said, “I will be prepared to do whatever it takes.” And that you would listen to the scientists. But I’m curious how you would do that at a federal level and how you would balance that, call the shut down potentially, if you had economic advisors saying, “You do this again, you could plunge the country into an even deeper economic crisis.”

 (32:06)
Well, look, I know you’re tired of hearing me say this. I’ve been saying it since last January. The idea that you’re going to be able to get the economy back on track without getting COVID under control is completely counterintuitive. It’s not there. It can’t happen. Unless we’re able to deal with the disease and drastically cut its impact on people’s confidence of being able to either go to work or walk into a business or do business, then it doesn’t matter a lot. There is going to be no need in my view, to be able to shut down the whole economy. I got asked by David Murer, a question. If I was asked to shut everything down, I took that as a generic question. Am I going to follow the science?

 (32:57)
I am going to insist and I insist now, without any authority, that every responsible person in this country, when they’re out in public or not with a cohort that they have lived with, because they know they haven’t spread it to their husband, wife, et cetera, that they wear a mask. That they wear a mask and keeps socially distanced. You can take a mask off when you’re 12, 15 feet away, but I would really, really make the case. And by the way, when I find these folks talking about my freedom, I talk about patriotism. Why do you wear a mask? To protect your neighbor, to keep someone else from getting sick and maybe dying. I call that patriotic. This is the United States of America. Every generation has made sacrifices to help others in moments of crisis.

Speaker 10: (34:01)
Let’s say, you had suggested there’d be some kind of a federal mandate about masks. And now you’re saying-

 (34:07)
No, no.

Speaker 10: (34:08)
You would encourage people?

 (34:10)
What I suggested was I would ask every person in authority. There’s a question whether or not a president, under the constitution, could mandate everyone wearing masks. And remember all during the primary, I’d have a lot of people telling me I would by executive order, do. I’m a constitutionalist. You can’t do things the Constitution doesn’t allow you the power to do. What I be doing is putting as much pressure as I could on every governor, every Senator, excuse me every mayor, every county executive, every local official, and everyone in business, putting pressure on them to say what you’re doing is irresponsible. Make sure you wear a mask and maintain social distancing. And the vast majority of the American people accept that notion.

Speaker 10: (34:58)
One more quick campaign question. You raised $364.5 million, your campaign and the DNC last month, record for a monthly haul, apparently. How are you going to spend it?

 (35:09)
You want to go dinner? No. I tell you what, look, what I’m having to spend a lot of it on is to counter the lies that are being told by Trump’s campaign and swift voters out there, a new pack. But what I’m trying to do is spend most of that … And by the way, I think the average contribution was like 40 bucks. We have over a 1,600,000 people who contributed in the middle of this economic crisis, somewhere between five, 10, $15. I’d say that shows some genuine enthusiasm about wanting to make sure that we have a chance of becoming President of United States.

 (35:56)
And so, what I will spend most of it doing is trying to explain to the American people how I want to unite the country, what I want to do to make the country better, why I’m so confident we can do it, why I’m so confident that we can bring the country together and be in a better position than before this crisis occurred. Because there’s been so many fissures exposed as a consequence of what’s happened, that people are now realizing my Lord, I didn’t know that people in that circumstance didn’t have that kind of help. I didn’t know, whatever. And so I think we have an enormous opportunity to bring the country together. And once again, lead the world. You’ve heard me say it a hundred times, not just by the example of our power, but the power of our example. Thank you all so very much for taking the time. Thank you.

Speaker 9: (36:48)
Thank you so much. Thank you.



 (25:09)
I used to interview my clients in what they call the Northeast Corridor, where Amtrak runs from Washington to New York, that area goes right through my city. And I used to interview clients down in the basement of that train station before they were arraigned. And here I was thinking that … And we had the eighth largest black population of any state in the nation as the percent of population. And we were, to our great shame, a slave state, although we were one of those border states who fought in the side of the North, thank God.

 (25:52)
But anyway, make a long story short, what happened was I thought black and whites would never be in my city, talk to each other again. And here I was then, literally 40 years later to the month, on January 17th, standing on a platform at that very same train station and looking out over called the East Side, which had been burned to the ground. Literally it had been completely leveled. When things get burned out, they come in and level everything. And then across the Christina River, they call the Third Street Bridge, it was all overwhelmingly 100% African American community. And I was standing on that platform January 17th, waiting for a black man to come 26 miles from Philadelphia to pick me up and take me on a train ride to Washington DC with 10,000 people standing down below cheering.

 (26:52)
And my son Beau was alive then. He was the attorney general of the state of Delaware at the time. And my daughter, who’s a social worker, ran the largest criminal justice program in the state. And my son, my middle son, who was running the World Food Health Program, The World Food Program USA, the largest program in the world. I call them up and all of a sudden it hit me. Here I was and that whole area has been rebuilt. And third street bridge is still in a little bit of trouble, but things have moved. And I said, “Don’t tell me things can’t change.” I told them about the story.

 (27:35)
Am I violating social distancing here walking up? I guess I am. Sorry. Yeah.

 (27:42)
And I said, don’t tell me these can’t change. And I told the story and pointed, reminded them what it was when I was a young attorney. But I made a mistake about something. I thought you could defeat hate. Hate only hides. It only hides. And when someone in authority breathes oxygen under that rock, it legitimizes those folks to come on out, come out in front of the rocks. And I hadn’t planned on running for anything again after my son had died. I was a professor at college and running another program at another college. Until I saw those people coming out of Charlottesville, carrying torches, literally torches coming out of the fields. Close your eyes. Remember what you saw on television. Their veins bulging, their hateful speech, chanting the same antisemitic bile that was chanting in the streets of Germany in the 30s. On top of that, accompanied by white supremacists, Klu Klux Klan. A young woman was killed protesting those folks.

 (29:03)
And the president of United States was asked. He was asked, “What do you think?” And he said something no president’s ever, ever said. He said, “There are very fine people on both sides.” No president has ever said anything like that. The generic point I’m making is not all his fault, but it legitimizes. It legitimizes the dark side of human nature.

 (29:32)
And what it did though, it also exposed what had not been paid enough attention to, the underlying racism that is institutionalized in the United States still exists, has existed for 400 years. So what’s happened is that we end up in a circumstance like you had here in Kenosha and have here in Kenosha. But I had a serious operation years ago in neurosurgeon and he gave me a relatively small chance of making it after it was all over. I said, “I’ll be fine.” And he said, “You know what your problem is, Senator?” He said, “You’re a congenital optimist.”

 (30:15)
Well, I think we’ve reached an inflection point in American history. I honest to God believe we have an enormous opportunity now that the screen, the curtain’s been pulled back, and just what’s going on in the country, to do a lot of really positive things. As much as they say that Black Lives Matter has lost some standards since the president has gone on this rant about law and order, et cetera, still you have over 50% of the American people supporting it. It was up to 78. That’s never happened before. People are beginning to see because of COVID who the people are out breaking their necks and risking their lives to keep them safe in their homes.

 (31:03)
You know that whole definition of a firefighter, God made man and then he made a couple firefighters. You’re all crazy, thanks God. I grew up in a neighborhood you either became a firefighter or a priest. I wasn’t qualify for either. So here I am. But all kidding aside, think of what’s happened. Think of all the people. Who were all those people? You’ve got over 6,000 young dreamers, “dreamers,” the Hispanic community who in fact are on the front lines dealing with COVID. You have all those folks working in a supermarket, stacking the shelves, making five, six, seven bucks an hour and they’re mostly minorities, African Americans, Latinos. People are beginning to figure out who we are as a country. This is not who we are. This is not who we are.

 (31:57)
So the first point I want to make to you all is I am not pessimistic. I am optimistic about the opportunity if we seize it. I’m going to respond to what each of you had to say.

 (32:10)
Tim, you talked about this a lot more, then you got to put money behind the solutions. The country’s ready to put that money behind the solutions now. Here’s what I’m proposing is going to happen. You point out a 30% poverty rate among African Americans. You have living wages don’t exist. We’re going to nationalize $ 15 an hour. No one should ever have to work two jobs just to make it. That’s not right in America. Just two jobs just to be above the poverty rate level?

 (32:43)
Prison reform, there’s a whole lot of forms it takes. But my view is we should turn prison reform, and I’ve been preaching this for the last five years, from prison punishment to reform. So for example, anybody serves their time in prison and they get out, they should be entitled to every single program that exists under the federal government. Why don’t we want them getting a Pell Grant and going to school? Why don’t we want them getting a job and being able to get public housing, housing subsidies? Why don’t we want them qualifying for what used to be called food stamps? But right now, I wrote years ago with a guy named Specter, Senator from Pennsylvania, the Second Chance Act. Because right now we’re in a situation where you get out of prison, and I think you all know this, you get a bus ticket and 25 bucks. By the way, 93% of everybody, 93 out of every 100 prisoners in prison are behind a city jail, a county jail, a state jail, not a federal prison. Barack were I are able to reduce the prison population federally by 38,000 folks.

 (33:48)
Anybody who gets convicted of a drug crime, not one that is terms of massive selling, but consumption, they shouldn’t go to prison. They should go to mandatory rehabilitation. Instead of building more prisons, I’ve been proposing for some time we build rehabilitation centers. Mandatory. They’ve got to go to mandatory rehab, but it’s not part of their record when they get out if they finish it. Because the point you made, you get a record and it stays with you. Sorry, you can’t get the job because you did the following. Even if it’s a misdemeanor. We shouldn’t be putting anybody in jail for that.

 (34:26)
We should find ourselves in a situation where housing. Right now in the United States of America, we don’t have the kind of housing funding we had back in our administration earlier before that, even the Republican administrations. No one should have to pay more than 30% of their income to be able to live and have housing, including people on the street. That’s why I proposed a $400 billion program to vastly increase available housing in America. And by the way, it’s not a waste of money. Even the folks on Wall Street pointed out that will increase the GDP, make it grow. People will do better. People do better.

 (35:03)
Hard as a devil for any of your clients who are black to get an entrepreneurial business loan. All the studies show they’re just as qualified to be able to succeed as anyone else is. Barack and I put together a program that was $1.5 billion that brought $30 billion off the sidelines. And we provide that program for the local small business association. So you can go and apply. Because guess what? If you get a loan, then the private sector says, “Hey, he’s got government backing and we’re going to join him. We’ll get in the deal with him or her.” We’re going to move that to $150 billion. This is fundamentally changing where we go.

 (35:43)
Okay, I’m giving you too much. I can see you’re about to stand up.

 (35:48)
Mental health. Mental health is a badly needed commodity right now. That’s why in the Affordable Care Act, we insisted it be treated equally. There’s no difference between a mental health problem and a physical health problem. They’re both related to your health. They should be both covered. You talked about the whole idea of federal support clinics. We need community clinics. You guys are expected to do everything right now.

 (36:19)
And Barb, you talked about rebuilding. Well, you know what? Let’s get something straight here. Protesting is protesting, my buddy John Lewis used to say. But none of it justifies looting, burning or anything else. So regardless how angry you are, if you loot or you burn, you should be held accountable as someone who does anything else, period. It just cannot be tolerated across the board.

 (36:48)
And Angela, you talk about the whole issue of sentencing. One of the things that I’ve proposed is we make sure that prosecutors are able to have to list what the option charges were given to a person. For example, if you’re a white guy who can afford a lawyer and you’re charged with a crime, you’re not charged with nine crimes, nine and given nine alternatives and say, “If you plead to the least one, we’re going to put you on probation.” And you have no lawyer or you have a public defender’s getting paid half the federal prosecutor’s getting paid. Public defenders are going to get paid the same of federal public defenders, the same amount as prosecutors are going to get paid. So we have representation.

 (37:38)
Because once you get that on your record, you’ve got a real problem. Well, two people show for a job. You have that thing you pled to. You weren’t guilty of any of it, but rather than run the risk of going to jail for five years, you plead to get out from under anything, meaning you’d have probation. That happens all the time. That’s why we have to have the federal Department of Justice, which is not much of a Department of Justice right now, have the ability to go and look at the methods that are used by prosecutors in their offices, how they in fact deal with sentencing and what they do.

 (38:13)
There’s a lot more to say, but I probably already said too much, except that there’s a lot we’re able to do. The public is ready to do these things. I promise you. I promise you.

 (38:26)
Last piece, education. The idea in the United States of America, your education is determined by your zip code. Title one schools. You all know what a title one school is. Mostly in black and Hispanic neighborhoods, but also poor white neighborhoods where they can’t afford the tax base. Title one schools are unable to get $15 billion a year to make up for the $200 billion gap that exists between them and other school districts, white school districts. Well, guess what? We moved that to $45 billion a year. It means I can put every three, four and five year old in school. In school.

 (39:08)
We’ve learned a lot in the last eight years. Every major university and prestigious university of the country has pointed out that increases by 58% the chances of that child, no matter what home they came from, will get all the way through all 12 years of school. It also insists that we provide for, right now we have one school psychologist for every 1,505 kids in America. We know now that about 60% of a child’s brain is developed by the time they’ve reached that age and anxiety that exists with children that can be identified early is able to be dealt with. Anxiety. But they don’t do it now because they can’t pick it up. And our situation again, where when you do that, we know that the most at risk generation for the first time in American history is Z generation. They have the greatest degree of anxiety of any generation all the way up the scale, no matter where they are.

 (40:04)
We’ve also learned … And I’ll end with this. I know you’re getting too antsy. Sit down, man. Okay. [crosstalk 00:40:13] But this is important. Here’s the deal. If you think about it, we’ve finally figured out drug abuse doesn’t cause mental health problems. Mental health problems cause drug abuse. And if you don’t detect the anxiety in children early and deal with it and treat it, you increase exponentially the prospect that they’re going to in fact find themselves susceptible to what’s happening in the community.

 (40:42)
The generic point I’m making is there’s so much we can do. So much we can do. And we can do it just by eliminating the tax cut for the top one 10th of 1%, which is $1,350,000,000,000 that’s done nothing to help anybody. 19 corporations making a billion dollars a piece don’t pay a single penny in taxes. I’m not wanting to punish anybody, but everyone should pay a fair share. I can lay out for you … I won’t now because they’ll shoot me. But here’s the deal. I pay for every single thing I’m proposing without raising your taxes one penny. If you make less than 400 grand, you’re not going to get a penny taxed and you’re going to get a tax cut if you make under $125,000. So it’s not, “We can’t do this.” We haven’t been willing to do this. But I think the public’s ready.

 (41:36)
Now I’ll do whatever you tell me, boss.

First of all, I’m going to just stay seated, make it informal. Portia, the things that I talked about here that we have to do didn’t start with even back to Eric Garner, “I can’t breathe.” Been proposing these for a long time. I mean, literally for years. And the one thing I think we have to acknowledge, my mom used to have an expression. My mom would say, “You want to know me? Come walk in my shoes a mile.” Well, even though I’ve been involved with the African American community and the civil rights movement since I’ve been a junior in high school, desegregating movie theaters and the like, I can’t understand what it’s like to walk out the door or send my son out the door, or my daughter, and worry about just because they’re Black, they may not come back. I can intellectually understand it, but I can’t feel it.

 (52:41)
I just spent an hour or more with the family as I got off the airplane. Had an opportunity to spend some time with Jacob on the phone. He’s out of ICU. We spoke for about 15 minutes. His brother and two sisters, his dad and his mom on the telephone. And I spoke to them a lot before, but we spent some time together with my wife. And he talked about how nothing was going to defeat him, how whether he walked again or not, he was not going to give up. We talked about a Psalm and my [inaudible 00:53:31] based on the 23rd Psalm. “May he raise you up with eagle’s wings and bury you on the breath of dawn until we … And keep you and hold you in the palm of his hand until we meet again.”

 (53:43)
Well, I think, Alderman, what’s been unleashed with a lot of people is they understand that fear doesn’t solve problems. Only hope does. And if you give up hope, you might as well surrender. There’s no real option. And as we talked, I listened to his mom. She was on the phone. She wasn’t with Jacob, she was in the same location. And as I said, his dad, his son, his brother, two sisters, and a family lawyer, two family lawyers were there. And what I came away with was the overwhelming sense of resilience and optimism that they have about the kind of response they’re getting. His mom talked about, we asked, my wife asked to say a prayer. And his mom said a prayer. She said, “I’m praying for Jacob, but I’m praying for the policemen as well. I’m praying that things change.”

 (55:11)
If you think a little bit about where we are right now, it’s been a terrible, terrible wake up call that’s gotten the rest of the nation to realize that the confluence of three things. One, the COVID crisis. Two, and we didn’t have to have over six million people contract COVID. Over 186,000 dead and climbing. If we had acted, if we’d had just acted. It’s been pointed out by the University of Columbia law school that if he had acted just one week earlier, 37,000 more people would have been alive. If he acted two weeks earlier, 51,000. Maybe 31 and 57 or 51 and … But the point is over 80,000 people would still be alive. You have to take responsibility if you’re a leader, a president. Instead of saying, “I’m not responsible, didn’t happen on my watch. I take no responsibility.”

 (56:19)
I think the country is much more primed to take responsibility because they now have seen what you see. But you don’t experience it the same way you do, Portia, because they’re not a bright young Black woman with two kids here, is it two or three children that you … Three children that you have to worry about. But there are changes that are taking place in the country. And one of the problems is that, and look, this is not about me. It’s really not about me. But if we have four more years, we’re going to have four years of the exact same thing, only it’s going to impact us for a couple generations. And the public kind of understands that now. And I think they’re so ready to do so many things. They either fully unaware of or aware of but never registered with them before. Or they just have seen things that they hadn’t seen before.

 (57:35)
When Dr. King, when he said, I know that’s ancient history, you weren’t even born. But when Bull Connor, I was in grade school when Bull Connor took those fire hoses and dogs on those Black women going to church in their Sunday best and little kids having the skin ripped off them by these high powered fire hoses, he thought he was putting a wooden stake in the heart of the civil rights movement. But in other parts of the country where they heard about this but didn’t believe it ever happened, everybody turned on a black and white TV. And they saw it. Said, “Oh my god.” Dr. King said it was a second emancipation. It got the Voting Rights Act, it got the Civil Rights Act. Didn’t get us all the way there, but made progress.

 (58:26)
And that young man stood there for eight minutes and I think it was 43 seconds watching, watching Floyd die, having his face pressed up against that curb. People not only United States, but all around the world said, “Oh my God. It really, really happens.” When you had a man of his size and physicality calling for his mom, it struck a nerve that hadn’t been struck before. It’s awful it has to happen. But I think we’re at one of those moments. We have this opportunity. If we don’t let up, we don’t let up.

 (59:14)
There’s a reason why this administration doesn’t want to talk about it, wants to only talk about dividing the country and about law and order. They don’t want to talk about all those people who have died from COVID. They don’t want to talk about the fact that almost a million people again file for unemployment, don’t have jobs. They don’t want to talk about the fact that you have tens of thousands of businesses closing, maybe for good. They don’t want to talk about the fact that the Congress passed legislation, Heroes Act, to provide money for states to be able to keep firefighters on the job, teachers on the job, first responders on the job, et cetera. They don’t want to talk about that because they don’t want to do it. They don’t feel it’s their obligation. So they’re trying to divert us the attention it’d have.

 (01:00:15)
If I get elected president, I promise you there will be a national commission on policing out of the White House where I’ll bring everyone to the table, including police chiefs, including civil rights activists, including the NAACP, including the African, the Latino community. We’re going to sit down there and we’re going to work it out. Because a significant portion of the police are decent people, but no one, there’s a lot of bad folks in every organization. There’s not a whole lot of people that want to speak up, be the odd man out or odd woman out, no matter what outfit you work with. And so we got to give a chance to change things. And we can. There is not a single solitary reason in the world. Why? Why, as I said, we shouldn’t be in a position that everybody … Hey, that’s my wife, Jill. Hey, Jilly. I’m Jill’s husband, actually.

 (01:01:22)
But I guess I should cut to the chase here. We’re in a situation now where we can not let up. We can not let up. Violence in any form is wrong. The idea that this president continues to try to divide us, gives succor to the white supremacists, talks about how there’s really good people on both sides, talks in ways that are just absolutely, I’ve never used this regarding the president before, not only incorrect, but immoral and just simply wrong, simply wrong. And the one concern I have, and I understand it, is that people are going to be so frustrated, particularly in the communities that need the help the most, need to be treated most clearly and equally, are going to say, “It’s not worth it at all. I’m not going to vote.”

 (01:02:17)
Guy was a very good friend of mine. Talked to him two days before he died. John Lewis. As John said, the only answer is to vote. It’s the only answer. [inaudible 01:02:35], but otherwise nothing else works in a democracy. It doesn’t work. The not so good guys win when we don’t vote. I understand. I really do have a sense of the frustration. But so where I am, I’m absolutely believe when the United States, when America set its mind to something, it’s never, never-

 (01:03:03)
… America set its mind to something it’s never, never, never, never, never failed. When we put our minds to and we do it together, never. We’ve gone through Wars and pestilence, plague. We’ve gone through a lot, and we’re finally now getting to the point, we’re going to be addressed the original sin of this country, 400 years old. It’s the original sin, slavery, and all the vestiges of it. I’m not saying in four years, and this is not about a campaigning, I can’t say if tomorrow God made me President, I can’t guarantee you everything gets solved in four years.

 (01:03:49)
But I guarantee you one thing, it’ll be a whole heck of a lot better. We’ll move a lot further down the road. People fear that which is different. We got to, for example, why in God’s name don’t we teach history in history classes. A black man invented the light bulb, not a white guy named Edison. Okay? There’s so much. Did anybody know before what’s recently happened? That black wall street in Oklahoma was burned to the ground?

 (01:04:28)
Anybody know these things? Because we don’t teach him. We’ve got to give people facts, teach them what’s out there, the idea. I just spent time with a number of the NFL players and basketball… And excuse me, basketball players, including Steph Curry. These folks are making a difference. Now it’s not about fame or glory, because they have brothers themselves. Fathers who’ve been beat up. Who’ve been brutalized just because they’re African-Americans. They’re about the time. They’re saying, I’m saying, “Enough is enough.”

 (01:05:12)
I think there is a chance for a real awakening here. And the point is, I don’t think we have any alternative, but to fight. I don’t think we have any alternative, but to fight back. [inaudible 01:05:28] alternative than just go tell the truth, just tell the truth. And a concluding comment I’ll make is, there’s a lot of folks who thought that, well, the president’s made great strides with his law and order strides here.

 (01:05:47)
That boy, after his convention, he really made inroads. He hasn’t, not at all. [inaudible 01:05:57] it should give you a little bit of, confidence in the American people, they ain’t buying it. With all the millions and millions and millions of dollars being spent, they’re not buying it. But we got to do more than them not buy it.

 (01:06:15)
We got to be honest with them and say, “You got to step up. You got to step up. We got to do a lot more, a lot more than we’ve done.” Because this is the first chance we’ve had in a generation, in my view, to deal and cut another slice off institutional racism toward getting the place where change is. And by the way, the main reason why I’m optimistic because of your generation, black, white, Hispanic, and Asian American. Did you ever think you’d turn on a TV… You’re much younger than I am, but you’re a little older than she is.

 (01:06:56)
You ever think you’d turn on the TV, and roughly two out of three ads would be biracial couples selling a product. That never would have happened in the ’50s, ’60s, ’70s, ’80s, ’90s. The generation, this generation, is a different generation. They’re the least prejudice, the most optimistic, the best educated, the most desirable of change of any generation. So we can’t let them down. Those of us are a lot older. We got to join and join them and do it now. Again, I thank you. As I said, I really am optimistic. I promise you, win or lose, I’m going to go down fighting. I’m going to go down fighting for racial equality, equity across the board. We hold these truths to be self evident that all men and women are created equal endowed by their creator. Well, that may be what your birthright was, but it’s very different than actually being treated equally, being treated the same.

 (01:08:11)
Everything from black mortality rates in pregnancy, straight through to educational opportunities and everything in between, but the country’s ready. And if they’re not, it doesn’t matter because there are certain things I ain’t going to change. There are certain things worth losing over, and this is something worth losing over if we have to, but we’re not going to lose.

We’re not going to go down.
Thank you, pastor Monroe. This concludes the program. We’re going to ask that everyone, please stay where you are. State staff will take over. We’re going to take a photo and they will direct traffic. Before we begin into that process, I’d like to thank Pastor Barker for hosting us here today, and Dr. Jill Biden and Vice President, Joe Biden for being here. We wish you well.



 (00:30)
My career has been about making decisions that impact people’s lives. I’ve known throughout my career that when I make a decision, it will directly impact a human being’s life.

 (00:49)
By the way, thanks for agreeing to do this. I know we got a lot going on. You’ve made a lot of tough decisions in your life. I hope agreeing to be the vice presidential candidate wasn’t one of the toughest ones.

 (01:01)
It wasn’t tough at all, not at all. I’m just so looking forward to what we’re going to be able to do.

 (01:08)
Well, you and I are going to have a lot to do, but I think we can do it. I talked to you about how Barack and I worked it, and he asked me, “Is there anything that I wanted once I agreed to do it?” And I said, “Yeah, I do. I’d like to be able to be the last person in the room when every important decision you make.” And that’s what I’d like you to do. I like you to be the last, because I’m confident you will tell me the truth about what you think even if you disagree. And I’m confident that your judgment is really good.

 (01:41)
What are some of the toughest decisions you had to make?

 (01:45)
Probably one of the toughest decisions is the decision that I made to pull California out of the negotiations with the five biggest banks of the United States around the foreclosure crisis.

 (01:57)
Well, I just walked out of the Oval. I was heading down to the office and I got a call from Beau. He said, Dad, we’re going to go after the banks. And he mentioned you as you guys are partners. Much, much bigger decision for you, but how tough was that decision?

 (02:13)
So your son who took such pride in everything about you and the relationship that the two of you had, he’s the Attorney General of Delaware, I’m the Attorney General of California, during the foreclosure crisis, California often had seven of the top 10 cities in the nation hardest hit.

 (02:30)
I remember.

 (02:32)
I felt compelled to take that decision and make that decision. And Beau said, “Kamala, I’m standing with you because it’s the right thing.” And Delaware, thank God, wasn’t as impacted as some other states with the foreclosure crisis. But Beau said on principle, even though he would take political heat, even though he had have to spend significant political capital, he said, “I’m standing with you.” And I’ll never forget that. We talked practically every day.

 (03:03)
That’s how I got to know you.

 (03:03)
Yeah, I know.

 (03:04)
You didn’t know I got to know you that way. I’ve heard you talk about the way you were raised and your sister and how you guys were together.

 (03:15)
My mother would come home, and she’d make dinner, and she’d spend some time with us, and then we’d go to bed, and she’d sit at that kitchen table figuring out how to make it all work. And so when I talk about that thing that wakes us up in the middle of the night and wakes up so many people in the middle of the night, those are the issues that we need to focus on, which is the things that cause people to lose sleep, because they’re worried about how they’re going to get through the end of the month, and feed their kids, and pay their rent. And that’s what motivates me.

 (03:48)
On the issue of homeownership, I was in high school when my mother was able to afford to buy our first home. I’ll never forget it. We were so excited because she was so excited. We were renters. We rented up until that point. The issue of homeownership in America is so much bigger than a financial investment. It really represents your hard work and the pride that you put into your work and the fact that you worked hard to do this. It’s your peace.

 (04:21)
My dad came back to Scranton after the war. At one point, I remember he made what I call, and a lot of parents have done it, the longest walk a parent can make up a short flight of stairs, and say, “Honey, we’re not going to be able to go to that school next year. You can’t play on that Little League team. Dad doesn’t have a job now.” And I remembered that happening, and we were going home and live with my grandpop and my uncle in the home that my mom was raised in. I thought about how much pride it must’ve cost my dad to walk into my grandpop Finnegan’s pantry and say, “Ambrose, can you take the kids and Jean,” my mom, “For a year live here. And I promise I’ll make it up.” And we moved to a place called Claymont, Delaware, but it took my dad, we moved when I was in third grade, and it wasn’t until seventh grade we were able to buy a home and a new “development.”

 (05:15)
My mother passed away from cancer, and my mother was the most influential person, human being, in my life. When you’re going through an illness with someone you love so dearly, and you’re going through taking them to chemo, and you’re going through that process not knowing what the next day or the next moment is going to hold. And on top of it, that anybody in our country would also have to worry about whether they might lose their house to pay the medical bills, to take care of the person they love, is immoral and inhumane.

 (05:58)
You think of all the people today who, because of the negative way in which this President has walked away with dealing with the COVID crisis. COVID he didn’t cause, but my God, the way it’s been responded to, and I don’t think he gets it, what that means to a parent, how can they maintain their sense of dignity when they look at a child who may have a need physically or otherwise, and know they can’t figure out how to deal with it? And he’s in court trying to take away the one piece of insurance that 20 million people got, and a hundred million people with pre-existing conditions have, we could be doing so much more to make sure that you had the testing equipment, protective equipment that the first responders and the nurses and the docs need to be able to take care of these people, the ability to test and trace. I mean, I just don’t get how there’s not this more significant understanding of the incredible pain that is occurring in America and the economic chaos that’s caused from that.

 (07:10)
There’s so much about this pandemic that has accelerated what was a problem before. People who were doing badly before are doing worse now. And people who before the pandemic were hardworking, had a job, again, had dignity, are now because of this pandemic driving up or standing in food lines for hours. And when you have a President of the United States who is just dismissing it like it’s some thing he can just flick away or magically wave a wand instead of stepping up to say, my people are in crisis and I need to step up to take care of them. He doesn’t have it in him.

 (07:55)
We were already, I think, in trouble before COVID. How many single parents out there, even before the crisis, the COVID crisis and economic crisis, were trying to figure out how can I keep my job and take care of my child? There should be automatic leave for people to be able to provide for the needs of their family. There should be childcare available and no one should have to pay more than a small percentage of their income to be able to get that childcare. The idea that you can’t get paid leave in America, it’s just wrong.

 (08:37)
And it’s been highlighted during this crisis is a mother or father going to self-quarantine when they’re not getting paid sick leave or paid family leave versus paying the rent or putting food on the table?

 (08:52)
This administration made sure the Mar-a-Lago crowd went to the head of the line. You got 40% of the money not going to small businesses. They’ve run out of that unemployment. You’re fighting for it. The House has passed legislation to make sure it goes forward. What are they thinking?

 (09:08)
I believe they don’t believe in the intelligence and the ethics of the American people. People like to work. They want to work. They want to earn their living. And for them to suggest that the American people instead want to gain the system is an insult to the intelligence and the integrity of the American people.

 (09:33)
You want to make this economy grow, you want to get a back, you got to give people a chance.

 (09:38)
What we have seen again is that this pandemic has highlighted the racial disparities that existed before. African Americans, before the pandemic, 20% more likely to have asthma, 40% more likely to have high blood pressure. Black women, three times more likely to have Lupus, which is an autoimmune disease. And we know that this virus, it preys on people with preexisting conditions. And so we’ve seen blacks and Latinos twice as likely to die from this virus. One of the great things I love about our plan is that it takes into account racial disparities. It acknowledges it so that we make sure that we’re putting resources in the communities that need them and do it in a way that everyone comes out equal.

 (10:26)
You’re on judiciary committee. When I got there as a young man, I was put on judiciary and ended up being chairman of that committee for a long time. And one of the things I was really proud of was the first time I was able to get the Voting Rights Act extended 25 years. We thought, boy, we’ve made it. Then along came that famous case that occurred-

 (10:46)
Shelby v. Holder.

 (10:46)
Shelby v. Holder. One of the things that I’m worried about is there is a whole new effort of Jim Crow out there. You have over, I think it’s over, I think it’s 33 states roughly that have passed laws, something like 80-some laws that make it harder to vote.

 (11:04)
In North Carolina, the Court of Appeals said that law was designed with surgical precision, those were the words of the court, to prevent black voters from voting.

 (11:16)
There’s still a significant effort in this administration to make it more difficult for Americans to vote. When you and I get elected, God willing, we’re going to push hard to make voting, Election Day, a national holiday, so people don’t have to take off work. There should be same day registration. We’re the greatest democracy in the world and voter turnout is being pushed by the other team to be lowered. What are they afraid of? I think they’re afraid of people showing up and voting.

 (11:47)
I think they’re afraid of the people, because when the people vote, they vote in favor of things like affordable childcare and paid sick leave. They vote in favor of working people. They vote in favor of the dignity of work.

 (12:06)
With all that’s going on, you have a pandemic, you have economic circumstances bad as it was during the depression, you got a situation where a systemic racism has been stripped bare and everyone has seen it. And you’ve got a climate crisis that is real and this President pretends it doesn’t exist. You look out there at this generation from millennials down to Generation Z, they’ve been through hell. They had 9/11. Then they had The Great Recession that we inherited in our administration. Now they have this and a lot of their plans got put on hold. They’re graduating from school without graduations. They’re not having their, I know it sounds silly, but it matters, their proms, their graduation ceremonies, but more importantly, the jobs they thought they were going to go to that they’ve spent all this time and money to get through. I mean, think of the people, all the debt that exists that people borrowed to get to and through school. I don’t think any family that has an income less than $125,000 should have to pay for a four year public state college education and or for community college.

 (13:19)
You have that also in our plan for HBCUs.

 (13:24)
Yes. Well, we’re going to give $70 billion to HBCUs. You went to one of the greatest-

 (13:30)
I am a very proud graduate of an HBCU, Howard University. But we have so many incredible HBCUs. One of the things about the plan, also, is it really is about supporting education after high school, and then the individual can decide what that education will be. And for some it will be a four year college. For some it will be a community college. For some it will be [crosstalk 00:13:55] –

 (13:54)
An apprentice program.

 (13:56)
Right. And that’s the great thing. It’s about education after high school, and then all of those tracks being available based on what a student wants to do, but supporting that.

 (14:07)
Right now, six out of 10 jobs in America require more than a high school degree. Jill has a great expression. Any country that out-educates us it’s going to out-compete us.

 (14:22)
That’s right.

 (14:23)
This is about the future. This is the United States of America. Anytime we’ve ever set our mind to something, we’ve never failed, as long as we’ve done it together.

 (14:33)
That’s right.

 (14:33)
And this constant effort to split us just seems to me to be so counterproductive for us.

 (14:39)
That’s right.

 (14:40)
Everybody thinks that we’ve led the world because we’re the most powerful nation in the world. And it’s true. We are. But we’ve not led by the example of our power. It’s been the power of our example.

 (14:55)
Yes.

 (14:56)
I really believe that the vast majority of American people are truly decent.

 (15:03)
Yes.

 (15:03)
I think they’re angry right now. I think they’re fed up. I think they’re looking for some authenticity and some honesty.

 (15:12)
We’re better than this.

 (15:14)
We are. I’m really excited you’re willing to do this with me.

 (15:17)
I am very excited about it. We’re going to get this done, Joe.

 (15:20)
No, I think we are. I think the country is… It’s going to be hard, but I think they’re going to be with us.

 (15:25)
I do too.

 (15:26)
Thanks.




 (00:01)
I want to thank Carnegie Mellon for providing this space and all the promise it holds for future jobs in the high tech world. In recent days, we’ve had a lot of talk about who’s going where and how I’ve decided to come to Pittsburgh to talk a little bit about what’s going on right now. In the early days of World War II, Franklin Roosevelt told the country, and I quote, “The news is going to get worse and worse before it gets better and better. And the American people deserve to have it straight from the shoulder.” Straight from the shoulder. The job of a president is to tell it straight from the shoulder, tell the truth, to be candid, to face facts, to lead, not to insight. That’s why I’m speaking to you today. The incumbant president is incapable of telling us the truth, incapable of facing the facts and incapable of healing. He doesn’t want to shed light, he wants to generate heat and he’s stroking violence in our cities.

 (01:12)
This is a tragic fact of the matter, how he’s dealing with this perilous hour in our nation. And now we have to stand against violence in every form it takes. Violence we’ve seen again and again and again, of unwarranted police shooting, excessive force, seven bullets in the back of Jacob Blake. Knee on the neck of George Floyd, killing of Breonna Taylor in her own apartment, violence of extremists and opportunists, right wing militias… And to derail any hope and support for progress, the senseless violence of looting and burning and destruction of property. I want to make it absolutely clear, so I’m going to be very clear about all of this, rioting is not protesting. Looting is not protesting. Setting fires is not protesting. None of this is protesting. It’s lawlessness, plain and simple. And those who do it should be prosecuted. Violence will not bring change, it will only bring destruction. It’s wrong in every way. It divides instead of unites, destroys businesses, only hurts the working families that serve the community. It makes things worse across the board, not better.

 (02:42)
It’s not what Dr. King or John Lewis taught and it must end. Fires are burning and we have a president who fans the flames rather than fighting the flames. But we must not burn, we have to build. This president, long ago, forfeited any moral leadership in this country. He can’t stop the violence because for years he’s fomented it. He may believe mouthing the words law and order makes him strong. But his failure to call on his own supporters to stop acting as an armed militia in this country shows how weak he is. Does anyone believe there’ll be less violence in America if Donald Trump is reelected?

 (03:30)
We need justice in America. We need safety in America. We’re facing multiple crises. Crises that under Donald Trump have kept multiplying. COVID, economic devastation, unwarranted police violence, [inaudible 00:03:48] white nationalists, a reckoning on race, declining faith in the birth of the right American future. There’s no reason why we can’t just do so much more than we’re doing. The common threat, the incumbent president who makes things worse, not better, an incumbent president who sows chaos rather than providing order. An incumbent president who fails in the basic duty of the job, which is to advance the truth that all of us know, that we’re all born with the right to life, Liberty, and pursuit of happiness. That’s right. All of us, the moms and dads in Scranton, where I grew up, who have worked and scraped for everything they’ve ever gotten in life.

 (04:34)
The auto worker in Michigan, who still makes the best automobile in the world, single mom in Ohio, working three jobs just to stay afloat who’ll do anything for her child. Retired veteran in Florida who gave everything he had to this country. And now just wants us to honor the promises made to him. [inaudible 00:04:58] salesperson who just lost their job. A store closing after 194 years in business. Nurses and doctors in Wisconsin who’ve seen so much sickness, so much death in the past six months. And they wonder how much more can they take, but still they muster up the courage to take care of those patients in this pandemic while risking their own lives. Researchers in Minnesota who woke up this morning determined to find a breakthrough in treating cancer and who’ll do the same thing tomorrow and the day after and the day after, because she’ll never give up. White, Black, Latino, Asian American, Native Americans, everybody, I’m in this campaign for you. No matter your color, no matter your zip code, no matter your politics.

 (05:51)
When I think of the presidency, I don’t think about myself. It isn’t about my brand. It’s about you, the American people. We can do better and we have to do better. I promise you this. We will do better. The road back begins now in this campaign. You know me, you know my heart, you know my story, my family story. Ask yourself, do I look like a radical socialist with a soft spot for rioters? Really? I want a safe America, safe from COVID, safe from crime and looting, safe from racially motivated violence, safe from bad cops. Let me be crystal clear, safe from four more years of Donald Trump. I look at this violence and I see lives and communities and the dreams of small businesses being destroyed and the opportunity for real progress on issues of race and police reform and justice being put to the test. Donald Trump looks at this violence and he sees a political lifeline. Having failed to protect this nation from the virus that has killed more than 180,000 Americans so far, Trump posts an all caps tweet, screaming, “Law and order,” to save his campaign.

 (07:23)
One of his closest political advisers in the White House doesn’t even bother to speak in code, just comes out and she says it. “The more chaos, violence, the better it is for Trump’s reelection.” Just think about that. This is a sitting president of the United States of America. He’s supposed to be protecting this country, but instead he’s rooting for chaos and violence. The simple truth is Donald Trump failed to protect America. So now he’s trying to scare America. Since Donald Trump and Mike Prince can’t run on their record that has seen more American death to a virus, this virus, then the nation suffered in every war since Korea combined, since they can’t run on their economy that has seen more people lose their jobs than any time since the Great Depression, since they can’t run on a simple proposition of sending our children safely back to school, since they have no agenda or vision for a second term, Trump and Pence are running on this.

 (08:36)
And I find it fascinating. “You won’t be safe in Joe Biden’s America.” And what’s their proof? The violence we’re seeing in Donald Trump’s America. These are not images of some imagined Joe Biden America in the future. These are images of Donald Trump’s America today. He keeps telling you if only he was president, it wouldn’t happen. If he was president. He keeps telling us that he was president you’d feel safe. Well he is president. Whether he knows it or not, and it is happening, it’s getting worse. And you know why? Because Donald Trump adds fuel to every fire because he refuses to even acknowledge that there’s a racial justice problem in America because he won’t stand up to any form of violence. He’s got no problem with right-wing militia, white supremacists, and vigilantes with assault weapons often better armed than the police. Often in the middle of the violence at the protestors and aiming it there. And because tens of millions of Americans simply don’t trust this president to respect their rights, to hear their concerns or to protect them. It doesn’t have to be this way.

 (09:55)
When President Obama and I were in the White House, we had to defend federal property. We did it. We didn’t see it. You didn’t see us whipping up fears around the deployment of secret federal troops. We just did our job and the federal property was protected. When president Obama and I were in office, we didn’t look at cities as Democratic or Republican run. These are American cities. But Trump doesn’t seem himself as president for all of America. Frankly, I believe if I were president today, the country would be safer and we’d be seeing a lot less violence, and here’s why. I have said we must address the issue of racial injustice. I’ve personally spoken to George Floyd’s family, and to Jacob Blake’s family. I know their pain. And so do you. I know the justice they seek and so do you. They’ve told us, “None of this violence respects or honors George or Jacob.” I believe it can bring these folks fighting for racial justice to the table.

 (11:07)
I’ve worked with police in this country for many years. I know most cops are good, decent people. I know how they risk their lives every time they put that shield on and go out the door. I’m confident I can bring the police to the table as well. I’d make sure every mayor and governor had the support they needed from the federal government. But I wouldn’t be looking to use the United States military against our own people. If I were president, my language would be less divisive, I’d be looking to lower the temperature in this country, not raise it. I’d be looking to unite the nation. But look, if Donald Trump wants to ask the question, “Who will keep you safer as president?” Let’s answer that question. First, some simple facts. When I was vice president, violent crime fell 15% in this country. We did it without chaos and disorder.

 (12:09)
And yes, we did it with democratic mayors in most of the major cities in this country. The murder right now is up 26% across the nation this year under Donald Trump. Do you really feel safer under Donald Trump? COVID has taken this year, just since the outbreak, has taken more than 100… Look, the lives, when you think about it, more lives this year than any other year for the past 100 years. More than 180,000 lives in just six months, an average of 1,000 people dying every day in the month of August. Do you really feel safe under Donald Trump? Mr. Trump, you want to talk about fear? Do you know what people are afraid of in America? Afraid they’re going to get COVID. They’re afraid they’re going to get sick and die. And that is in no small part because of you. We’re now on track to more than 200,000 deaths in this country due to COVID. More than 100,000 seniors have lost their lives to the virus.

 (13:26)
More cops have died from COVID this year than have been killed on patrol. Nearly one in six small businesses have closed in this country today. Do oyu really feel safer under Trump? What about Trump’s plan to destroy the Affordable Care Act, and with it, the protections for preexisting conditions that impacts more than 100 million Americans? Does that make you feel safer? Or how about Trump’s plan to defund social security? The social security administration’s chief actuary just released a report saying that if a plan like the one Trump is proposing goes into effect, the social security trust fund would be, and I quote, “Permanently depleted by the middle of calendar year 2023, with no ability to pay benefits thereafter.” To put it plainly, Trump’s plan with wipe out social security period. Do you feel safer and more secure now? The fear that reigns under this president doesn’t stop at our shores. The Kremlin has put bounties on the heads of American soldiers.

 (14:44)
And instead of telling Vladimir Putin that there’d be no putting up with this, that there’d be a heavy price to pay if they dare touch an American soldier, this president doesn’t even bring up the subject in his multiple phone calls with Putin. It’s been reported that Russian forces just attacked American troops in Syria, injuring our service members. Did you hear the president say a single word? Did he lift one finger? Never before has an American president played such a subservient role to a Russian leader. It’s not only dangerous, it’s humiliating and embarrassing for the rest of the world to see, it weakens us. Not even American troops can feel safer under Trump. Donald Trump’s role as a bystander in his own presidency extends to the economic plan and pain. The plan he doesn’t have and the pain being felt by millions of Americans. He said this week, and I quote, “You better vote for me, or you’re going to have the greatest depression you’ve ever seen.” Does he not understand and see the tens of millions of people who’ve had to file for unemployment this year so far?

 (16:12)
The people who won’t be able to make next month’s rent payment? The people who lost wages or the cost of groceries have gone up dramatically? President Obama and I stopped a depression in 2009. We took a bad economy that was falling and turned it around. Trump took a good economy and drove it back into the ditch. Through his failure to get COVID under control, his failure to pull together the leaders in Congress, his failure to deliver real relief to working people, has made our country’s economic situation so much worse, so much worse than it had to be. We talk about safety and security. We should talk about basic security of being able to look your child in the eye and tell them, “Everything’s going to be okay. Don’t worry, honey. We’re not going to lose our home. We’re going to be able to put food on the table. It’s going to be okay.”

 (17:13)
It’s the job of the president. I’ve laid out an agenda for economic recovery that will restore a sense of security for working families. We won’t just build things back the way they were before. We’re going to build them back better with good paying jobs. Building our nation’s roads, bridges, solar rays, windmills with investments in our healthcare and childcare workers so they get the pay and dignity they deserve while easing the financial burdens on millions of families with a clean energy strategy that has a place for the energy workers right here in Western Pennsylvania. I am not banning fracking. Let me say that again. I am not banning fracking. No matter how many times Donald Trump lies about me, the future, that’s what this is all about. We hear Donald Trump’s self centered rants and riffs, but the voice of Americans should be heard. And one you should listen to is Julia Jackson, the mother of Jacob Blake. Hers is a voice of courage, character and wisdom.

 (18:32)
Looking at the damage that has been done in her city, she said, “The violence and destruction doesn’t reflect my son or my family.” These are the words of a mom, a mother whose son had just been shot seven times in front of his children, badly injured, paralyzed, perhaps permanently. And even as she seeks justice for her son, she’s pleading for an end to the violence and for this nation to heal. She said she was praying for her son. Then she said something to me that that surprised me. She said she was praying for all police officers. She said was already been praying for America even before her son was shot. She’s publicly asked all of us to examine our hearts, citizens, elected officials, the police, all of us. And then she said, this. “We need healing. More than anything, that’s what we need to do as a nation. We need to heal.”

 (19:43)
Our current president wants you to live in fear, he advertises himself as a figure of order. He isn’t, and he’s not been part of the solution thus far. He’s part of the problem. The problem, I, as president, will give you my all resolve to stop. I’ll deal with the virus, I’ll deal with the economic crisis, and I’ll work to bring a quality and opportunity to everyone. We’ve arrived at a moment in this campaign, we all know, including the press in front of me, knew we’d get to. The moment when Donald Trump would be so desperate, he’d do anything to hold onto power. Donald Trump has been a toxic presence in our nation for four years. Poisoning how we talk to one another, poisoning how we treat one another, poisoning the values this nation has always held dear, poisoning our very democracy. Now, in just a little over 60 days, we have a decision to make. Will we rid ourselves of this toxin or will we make it a permanent part of our nation’s character?

 (21:05)
As Americans, I’m confident we believe in honesty and decency, treating everyone with dignity and respect, giving everyone a fair shot, leaving no one behind, giving hate no safe harbor, and demonizing no one. We, up to now, always recognize there’s something bigger than ourselves, that’s what we’re about. Trump doesn’t seem to believe in any of that. Look, I’ve said it before and I’ll keep saying it, America is an idea. It’s the most powerful idea in the history of the world. And I believe it beats in the hearts of the people of this country. All men and women are created equal and they deserve to be treated equally.

 (21:59)
Trump has sought to remake this nation in his image. Selfish, angry, dark, and divisive. This is not who we are. At her best, america’s always been, and if I have anything to do it, it will be again, generous, confident, an optimistic nation full of hope and resolve. Donald Trump is determined to instill fear in America. That’s what his entire campaign for the president has come down to, fear. But I believe Americans are stronger than that. I believe we’ll be guided by the words of Pope John Paul II, words drawn from the scriptures. Be not afraid, be not afraid. Fear never builds the future, but hope does. And building the future is what America does, what we’ve always done. In fact, it’s what we have done best and continue to do best. This is the United States of America. There’s not a single thing beyond our capacity when we decide to do it together. So let’s get together. I want to thank you all. May God bless you, and may God protect our troops.




 (00:00)
The civil rights movement left us with this wisdom, give people light and they will find the way. Give people light. Those are words for our time. The current president has cloaked America in darkness for much too long. Too much anger, too much fear, too much division. Here and now I give you my word, if you entrust me with the presidency, I will draw on the best of us, not the worst. I’ll be an ally of the light, not the darkness. It’s time for us, for we the people to come together. And make no mistake. United we can and will overcome this season of darkness in America. We’ll choose hope over fear, facts over fiction, fairness over privilege. I’m a proud Democrat, and I’ll be proud to carry the banner of our party into the general election. So it’s with great honor and humility, I accept this nomination for president of the United States of America.

 (01:14)
But while I’ll be a democratic candidate, I will be an American president. I’ll work hard for those who didn’t support me, as hard for them as I did for those who did vote for me. That’s the job of a president. To represent all of us, not just our base or our party. This is not a partisan moment. This must be an American moment. It’s a moment that calls for hope, and light, and love. Hope for our future, light to see our way forward, and love for one another. America isn’t just a collection of clashing interest, of red states or blue states. We’re so much bigger than that. We’re so much better than that. Now, nearly a century ago, Franklin Roosevelt pledged a new deal in a time of massive unemployment, uncertainty, and fear. Stricken by a disease, stricken by a virus, FDR insisted that he would recover and prevail and he believed America could as well. And he did and we can as well.

 (02:23)
This campaign isn’t just about winning votes. It’s about winning the heart, and yes, the soul of America. Winning it for the generous among us, not the selfish. Winning it for workers who keep this country going, not just the privileged few at the top. Winning it for those communities who have known the injustice of a knee on the neck. For all of the young people who have known only America being a rising inequity and shrinking opportunity. They deserve the experience of America’s promise. They deserve to experience it in full. No generation never knows what history will ask of it. All we can ever know is whether we’re ready when that moment arrives. And now history has delivered us to one of the most difficult moments America’s ever faced. Four, four historic crises, all at the same time. A perfect storm, the worst pandemic in over a hundred years, the worst economic crisis since The Great Depression, the most compelling call for racial justice since the sixties and the undeniable [inaudible 00:03:37] and just the accelerating threats of climate change.

 (03:44)
So the question for us is simple. Are we ready? I believe we are. We must be. All elections are important but we know in our bones, this one is more consequential. As many have said, America’s at an inflection point, a time of real peril, but also of extraordinary possibilities. We can choose a path of becoming angrier, less hopeful, more divided, a path of shadow and suspicion, or we can choose a different path and together take this chance to heal, to reform, to unite, a path of hope and light. This is a life-changing election. This will determine what America is going to look like for a long, long time. Character is on the ballot, compassion is on the ballot, decency, science, democracy, they’re all on the ballot. Who we are as a nation, what we stand for, and most importantly, who we want to be, that’s all on the ballot. And the choice could not be more clear. No rhetoric is needed. Just judge this president on the facts.

 (05:01)
5 million Americans infected by COVID-19. More than 170,000 Americans have died. By far the worst performance of any nation on earth. More than 50 million people have filed for unemployment this year. More than 10 million people are going to lose their health insurance this year. Nearly one in six, small businesses have closed this year. And this president, if he’s re-elected, you know what will happen. Cases and deaths will remain far too high. More mom and pop businesses will close their doors, and this time for good. Working families will struggle to get by, and yet the wealthiest 1% will get tens of billions of dollars in new taxes breaks and the assault on the Affordable Care Act will continue until it’s destroyed, taking insurance away from more than 20 million people, including more than 15 million people on Medicaid, and getting rid of the protections that President Obama worked so hard to get passed for a hundred million more people who have preexisting conditions.

 (06:16)
And speaking of President Obama, a man I was honored to serve alongside for eight years as vice president. Let me take this moment to say something we don’t say nearly enough. Thank you, Mr. President, you were a great president, a president that our children could and did look up to. No one’s going to say that about the current occupant of the White House. What you know about this president is if he’s given four more years, he’ll be what he’s been for the last four years. The president takes no responsibility, refuses to lead, blames others, cozies up to dictators, and fans the flames of hate and division. He’ll wake up every day believing that job is all about him, never about you. Is that the America you want for you, your family, your children? I see a different America, one that’s generous and strong, selfless, and humble. It’s an America we could rebuild together.

 (07:21)
As president the first step I will take would be to get control of the virus that has ruined so many lives because I understand something this president hasn’t from the beginning, we will never get our economy back on track, we will never get our kids safely back in schools, we’ll never have our lives back until we deal with this virus. The tragedy of where we are today is it didn’t have to be this bad. Just look around. It’s not this bad in Canada, or Europe, or Japan, or almost anywhere else in the world. And the president keeps telling us, the virus is going to disappear. He keeps waiting for a miracle. Well, I have news for him. No miracle is coming. We lead the world in confirmed cases, we lead the world in deaths. Our economy is in tatters, with Black, Latino, Asian-American, Native American communities bearing the brunt of it. And after all this time, the president still does not have a plan.

 (08:28)
Well, I do. If I’m your president, on day one, we’ll implement the national strategy I’ve been laying out since March. We’ll develop and deploy rapid tests for the results available immediately. We’ll make the medical supplies and protective equipment that our country needs, and we’ll make them here in America, so we will never again be at the mercy of China or other foreign countries in order to protect our own people. We’ll make sure our schools have the resources they need to be open, safe, and effective. We’ll put politics aside. We’ll take the muzzle off our experts, so the public gets the information they need and deserve, honest unvarnished truth. They can handle it. We’ll have a national mandate to wear a mask, not as a burden, but as a patriotic duty to protect one another. In short, we’ll do what we should have done from the very beginning. Our current president has failed in his most basic duty to the nation. He’s failed to protect us. He’s failed to protect America. And my fellow Americans, that is unforgivable.

 (09:50)
As president, I’ll make you a promise. I’ll protect America, I will defend us from every attack, seen and unseen, always, without exception, every time. Look, I understand. I understand how hard it is to have any hope right now. On this summer night, let me take a moment to speak to those you who have lost the most. I have some idea how it feels to lose someone you love. I know that deep black hole that opens up in the middle of your chest and you feel like you’re being sucked into it. I know how mean, and cruel, and unfair life can be sometimes. But I’ve learned two things. First, your loved one may have left this earth, but they’ll never leave your heart. They’ll always be with you, you always hear them. And second, I’ve found the best way through pain and loss and grief is to find purpose. As God’s children, each of us have a purpose in our lives.

 (11:01)
We have a great purpose as a nation to open the doors of opportunity to all Americans, to save our democracy, to be a light to the world once again, and finally, to live up to and make real the words written in the sacred documents that founded this nation, that all men and women are created equal, endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights among them, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. My dad was an honorable, decent man. He got knocked down a few times, pretty hard, but he always got back up. He worked hard and he built a great middle class life for our family. He used to say, “Joey, I don’t expect the government to solve my problems, but I sure in hell expect them to understand them.” And then he’d say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay,’ and mean it.”

 (12:13)
I’ve never forgotten those lessons. That’s why my economic plan is all about jobs, dignity, respect, and community. Together we can and will rebuild our economy. And when we do, we’ll not only build back, we’ll build back better, with modern roads, bridges, highways, broadband, ports and airports as a new foundation for economic growth, with pipes of transport, clean water, to every community, with 5 million new manufacturing and technology jobs so the future is made in America. With a healthcare system that lowers premiums, deductibles, drug prices, by building on the Affordable Care Act he’s trying to rip away. With an education system that trains our people for the best jobs of the 21st century. There’s not a single thing american workers can’t do. And where cost doesn’t prevent young people from going to college and student debt doesn’t crush them when they get out. With a childcare and eldercare system that makes it possible for parents to go to work and for the elderly to stay in their homes with dignity. With an immigration system that powers our economy and reflects our values.

 (13:36)
And with newly empowered labor unions. They’re the ones that build the middle class. With equal pay for women, with rising wages you could raise a child on, a family on. And yes, we’re going to do more than praise our essential workers. We’re finally going to pay them. Pay them. We can and we will deal with climate change. It’s not only a crisis, it’s an enormous opportunity, an opportunity for America to lead the world in clean energy and create millions of new, good-paying jobs in the process. And we can pay for these investments by ending loopholes, unnecessary loopholes, and the president’s $1.3 trillion tax giveaway to the wealthiest 1% and the biggest, most profitable corporations, some of which do not pay any tax at all. Because we don’t need a tax code that rewards wealth more than it rewards work. I’m not looking to punish anyone. Far from it. But it’s long past time the wealthiest people and the biggest corporations in this country paid their fair share.

 (14:51)
And for our seniors, social security is a sacred obligation, a sacred promise made they paid for. The current president is threatening to break that promise. He’s proposing to eliminate a tax that pays for almost half the social security, without any way of making up for that loss revenue, resulting in cuts. I will not let that happen. If I’m your president, we’re going to protect social security and Medicare. You have my word. One of the most powerful voices we hear in the country today is from our young people. They’re speaking to the inequity and injustice that has grown up in America. Economic injustice, racial injustice, environmental injustice. I hear their voices, if you listen, you can hear them too. And whether it’s the existential threat posed by climate change, the daily fear of being gunned down in school, or the inability to get started in your first job, it will be the work of the next president to restore the promise of America to everyone. And I’m not going to have to do it alone because I’ll have a great vice president at my side, Senator Kamala Harris.

 (16:18)
She’s a powerful voice for this nation. Her story is the American story. She knows about all the obstacles thrown in the way of so many in our country, women, Black women, Black Americans, South Asian Americans, immigrants, the left out and the left behind, but she’s overcome every obstacle she’s ever faced. No one’s been tougher on the big banks and the gun lobby. No one has been tougher in calling out the current administration for its extremism, its failure to follow the law, its failure to simply tell the truth. Kamala and I both draw from our families. That’s where we get our strength. For Kamala it’s Doug and their families. For me, it’s Jill and ours. I’ve said many times, no man deserves one great love in his life, let alone two. But I’ve known two. After losing my first wife in that car accident, Jill came into my life. She put our family back together. She’s an educator, a mom, a military mom, and an unstoppable force. If she puts her mind to it, just get out of the way. She’s going to get it done.

 (17:35)
She was a great second lady and I know she’ll make a great first lady for this nation. She loves this country so much. And I’ll always have the strength that can only come from family. Hunter, Ashley, all our grandchildren, my brothers, my sister, they give me courage, they lift me up. While he’s no longer with us, Beau inspires me every day. Beau served our nation in uniform, a year in Iraq, a decorated Iraqi war veteran. So I take very personally the profound responsibility of serving as commander in chief. I’ll be a president who’ll stand with our allies and friends and make it clear to our adversaries, the days of cozying up to dictators is over. Under President Biden, america will not turn a blind eye to Russian bounties on their heads of American soldiers, nor will I put up with foreign interference in our most sacred democratic exercise, voting. And I’ll always stand for our values of human rights and dignity.

 (18:56)
I’ll work in common purpose for more secure, peaceful, and prosperous world. History has thrust one more urgent task on us. Will we be the generation that finally wipes out the stain of racism from our national character? I believe we’re up to it. I believe we’re ready. Just a week ago yesterday, was the third anniversary of the events in Charlottesville. Close your eyes, remember what you saw on television. Remember seeing those neo-Nazis, and Klansmen, and white supremacists coming out of fields with lighted torches, veins bulging, spewing the same anti-Semitic bile heard across Europe in the thirties. Remember the violent clash that ensued between those spreading hate, and those with the courage to stand against it. Remember what the president said when asked. He said they were “very fine people on both sides.” It was a wake up call for us as a country, and for me, a call to action. At that moment, I knew I’d have to run, because my father taught us that silence was complicity, and I can never remain silent or complicit. At the time, I said we’re in the battle for the soul of this nation, and we are.

 (20:33)
One of the most important conversations I’ve had this entire campaign. It was so someone who was much too young to vote. I met with six year old Gianna Floyd the day before her daddy, George Lloyd was laid to rest. She’s an incredibly brave little girl and I’ll never forget it. When I leaned down to speak to her, she looked in my eyes and she said, and I quote, “Daddy changed the world.” Daddy changed the world. Her words burrowed deep into my heart. Maybe George Floyd’s murder was a breaking point. Maybe John Lewis’ passing is the inspiration. But however it’s come to be, however it’s happened, America’s ready in John’s words, to lay down, quote, “The heavy burden of hate at last.” And in the hard work of rooting out our systemic racism. American history tells us that it’s been in our darkest moments that we’ve made our greatest progress, that we found the light. In this dark moment, I believe we’re poised to make great progress again, that we can find the light once more.

 (22:05)
Many people have heard me say this but I’ve always believed you can define America in one word, possibilities. The defining feature of America, everything is possible. That in America, everyone, and I mean, everyone should be given an opportunity to go as far as their dreams and God-given ability will take them. We can never lose that. In times as challenging as these, I believe there’s only one way forward, as united America, a united America, united in our pursuit of a more perfect union. United in our dreams of a better future for us and for our children. United in our determination to make the coming years bright. Are you ready? I believe we are. This is a great nation. We’re good and decent people. For Lord’s sake this is the United States of America, and there’s never been anything we’ve been able to accomplish when we’ve done it together.

 (23:15)
The Irish poet, Seamus Heaney once wrote, “History says, don’t hope on this side of the grave, but then, once in a lifetime, the longed-for tidal wave of justice can rise up and hope and history rhyme.” This is our moment to make hope and history rhyme with passion and purpose. Let us begin you and I together, one nation, under God, united in our love for America, united in our love for each other. For love is more powerful than hate, hope is more powerful than fear, and light is more powerful than dark. This is our moment, this is our mission. May history be able to say that the end of this chapter of American darkness began here tonight as love and hope and light join in the battle for the soul of the nation. And this is a battle we will win and we’ll do it together. I promise you. Thank you, and may God bless you, and may God protect our troops.



 (00:01)
We talked about school openings. We talked about the distribution of a vaccine, if and when one arrives, and what plans would be made for. We talked significantly about the racial disparities that exist and how COVID-19 is affecting different races differently, and we talked about the continued lack of PPE protective equipment and testing capacity and the like. I’ve put out a comprehensive plan over the last three months on each of these things, but today I want to talk about one thing. Very straightforward. Doesn’t have anything to do with Democrats, Republicans or independents. It has to do with a single simple proposition: every single American should be wearing a mask when they’re outside for the next three months at a minimum. Every governor should mandate. Every governor should mandate mandatory mask wearing. The estimates by the experts are it will save over 40,000 lives in the next three months. 40,000 lives if people act responsibly.

 (01:25)
And it’s not about your rights, it’s about your responsibilities as an American. The fact is that as Americans are lining up to give blood, Americans volunteer all their time for food banks and local charities, supporting their neighbors that are in need. Well, this is no different. Wearing a mask is less about you contracting the virus, although it does help depending on the mask, but it’s about preventing other people from getting sick. Wearing a mask will give the life of a clerk or your local store or your letter carrier, your child’s teacher, it will increase their prospects of not contracting the virus. Even though it’s uncomfortable, we’re not used to it, wearing a mask is going to get our kids back to school sooner and safer. Wearing a mask, every American wearing a mask outdoors, is going to get our businesses back and the full strength long-term, and we’re going to get our country back on track.

 (02:31)
But again, when I get occasionally confronted with a person in the public about wearing a mask, I say, “Look, this is America. Be a Patriot. Protect your fellow citizens. Protect your fellow citizens. Step up. Do the right thing. Do the right thing.” There’s overwhelming evidence that the mask and depending on the type of mask you wear increases exponentially the prospect that you, if you are a carrier and you don’t even know it, that you will not infect anyone when you cough, sneeze, sing, shout.

 (03:17)
A lot of people are dying. We’re up over 160,000 people dead so far. And I’ll end by saying that it goes back to the study some months ago by Columbia University saying that we didn’t have to be this way. If the president had acted sooner, just one week earlier, it would have saved 30-some-thousand lives. Two weeks earlier, I think it was 51,000 or 57,000 lives. I hope we’ve learned a lesson. Hope the president has learned a lesson, but again, this is not about Democrat, Republican or independent. It’s about saving America’s lives, so let’s Institute a mass mandate nationwide starting immediately, and we will save lives. The estimates are we’ll save over 40,000 lives in the next three months if that is done.

 (04:12)
Now, let me turn it over to my colleague and running mate. She has a few comments to make. [inaudible 00:04:20].

 (04:27)
Thanks, Joe. That’s what real leadership looks like. We just witnessed real leadership, which is Joe Biden said that as a nation, we should all be wearing a mask for the next three months, because it will save lives. And the thing about Joe that the American people know is that his role of leadership in our country has always been about doing what’s best for the people of our country, best for their health, their wellbeing, and for their families. That’s what real leadership looks like. And when Joe talks about his priorities, he knows and he cares about the fact that we have as a nation witnessed 165,000 people, who just in the last few months, have died in our country. We know that those individuals represent families, loved ones, grandparents, parents, sisters and brothers, aunts and uncles of people who are mourning their loss every day, so what real leadership looks like is Joe Biden to speak up, sometimes telling us the stuff that we don’t necessarily want to hear, but we need to know.

 (05:43)
And the need for this mandatory mask wearing will also be about what Joe has articulated and what a Biden-Harris administration will do in terms of creating a pandemic testing board to get tens of millions of testing kits were needed to build a public health jobs corps, hiring at least 100,000 Americans to lead us through contact tracing as soon as we take office, and to chart a clear path forward for a safe and effective vaccine and guarantee every American, every American equal access to it by investing $25 billion, which is Joe’s plan. $25 billion in manufacturing and distribution. When Joe talks about this, I think it’s important that the American people looking at the election coming up ask the current occupant of the White House, “When am I going to get vaccinated? When am I actually going to get vaccinated?” Because there may be some grand gestures offered by the current president about a vaccine, but it really doesn’t matter until you can answer the question, “When am I going to get vaccinated?” So again, Joe Biden is about real leadership in our country, and I’m honored to be with you, Joe. Thank you.

Speaker 3: (07:11)
Mr. Biden, can you tell us about your [inaudible 00:07:14]. What did she tell you? Anything on your [crosstalk 00:07:20].

 (07:16)
We’ll talk about that later.




 (17:08)
Please welcome Vice President Joe Biden and Senator Kamala Harris.

 (17:27)
Hello hello. Thanks for being here. I wish we were able to talk to the folks outside but we’re keeping our social distancing and playing by the rules. Good afternoon everyone. To me and to Kamala, this is an exciting day. It’s a great day for our campaign and it’s a great day for America in my view. Over the past several weeks I have had the incredible privilege of meeting and spending a good deal of time with a group of talented women leaders, all of whom are qualified to be president. With each one, the more I learned about them, the more I talked to them, the more impressed I was even though I knew them before. I want to thank each and every one of them for being part of this process and I look forward to working with them as we rebuild this country to get elected and once we are elected God willing.

 (18:27)
I approached this with a seriousness of purpose and of mind because this is a serious moment for our nation. We’re at one of those inflection points, you’ve heard me say that before, in our history. A life-changing election for this nation and the choice, the choice we make this November is going to decide the future of America for a very, very long time and I had a great choice. Great opportunities. I had a great choice but I have no doubt that I picked the right person to join me as the next Vice President of the United States of America and that’s Senator Kamala Harris. You know, it seems Americans all across this nation, at least at the outset here agree with me. Yesterday we had our best grassroots fundraising day of the campaign, more than double our previous record, and in doing so, we set a single day record for online political fundraising and I think I know why. So I hope that you’ll join us as well, those of you listening today. Go to joebiden.com today, $5.00, $10.00, whatever.

 (19:45)
Kamala, as you all know is smart, she’s tough, she’s experienced, she’s a proven fighter for the backbone of this country, the middle class, for all those who are struggling to get into the middle class. Kamala knows how to govern. She knows how to make the hard calls. She’s ready to do this job on Day One and we’re both ready to get to work, rebuilding this nation and building it better. As attorney general of the largest state in the country, Kamala took on the big banks over mortgage fraud and won. Took on big oil that wanted to pollute without consequences. She was a pioneer in marriage equality and tackled the gun lobby. You know, we’ve all watched her in the United States Senate go toe to toe with Trump officials trying to hide the truth, asking the tough questions that needed to be asked and not stopping until she got an answer and when none was forthcoming it was obvious what the answer was.

 (20:51)
As a member of the Intelligence Committee and the Judiciary Committee, she’s been the center, in the middle of the most critical national security challenges our country faces. Well aware, well aware of all the threats to this nation and ready to respond to them. As a child of immigrants, she knows personally how immigrant families enrich our country as well as the challenges of what it means to grow up black and Indian-American in the United States of America. Her story is America’s story, different from mine in many particulars, but also not so different in the essentials. She has worked hard, she has never backed down from a challenge, and she has earned each and every of the accolades and achievements that she has gained. Many of them often in the face of obstacles that others put in her way but never quit, and this morning, all across the nation, little girls woke up, especially little black and brown girls, who so often feel overlooked and undervalued in their communities, but today, today just maybe, they’re seeing themselves for the first time in a new way, as the stuff of presidents and vice presidents.

 (22:20)
In her campaign in the primary, Kamala often talked about what she referred to as the 3:00 a.m. agenda, about moms and dads awake late at night in their kitchens, worried, scared, uncertain about how they were going to take care of their families, about how they were going to pay the bills, about how they were going to make it, simply make it. Growing up in Scranton and Claymont, Delaware, I saw that struggle with my family as well. Kamala saw it with hers as well and millions of Americans are living that struggle as we speak, especially in this moment of crisis, especially with so many jobs lost. Kamala and I both know that all folks are looking for as my dad would say is an even shot, just give me a shot, a fair shot, a shot at making it and it will be the work of our administration to make sure they get a fair shot.

 (23:24)
Working families need someone on their side in this nation because they certainly don’t have anyone in the president now on their side. That’s going to change in a Biden-Harris administration. It’s going to be gratifying to see the strong, enthusiastic reaction to Senator Harris as our next vice president. It comes from people all over the country, it’s already occurring. All over the country, all ideological views, all backgrounds. Events of course, we are predictable, some of them. It comes from all over except of course from Donald Trump’s White House and his allies. You all knew it was coming. You could have set your watches to it. Donald Trump has already started his attacks, calling Kamala “nasty”, whining about how she is “mean” to his appointees. It’s no surprise because whining is what Donald Trump does best, better than any president in American history.

 (24:37)
Is anyone surprised Donald Trump has a problem with a strong woman or strong women across the board? We know that more is to come, so let’s be clear. If you’re a working person, worried about whether or not you have a job to go to, whether or not you’ll be able to pay your mortgage, pay your rent, worried about the poison in the air you breathe, the water you drink, worried about your civil rights, even your basic right to dignity which is under attack with this administration, Kamala Harris has had your back and now we have to have her back. She’s going to stand with me in this campaign and all of us are going to stand up for her. On January 20, 2021, we’re all going to watch Senator Harris raise her right hand and swear the oath of office as the first woman ever to serve in the second highest office in America in this land, and then we’re going to get to work, fixing the mess that President Trump and Vice President Pence have created, both at home and abroad through four years of mismanagement and coddling of terrorists and thugs around the world. Not only will America dig itself out of this hole they put us in, we’re going to build. We’re going to build back and we’re going to build back better. We have a public health crisis. While he’s in court trying to do away with health care, with more than five million reported infections, 165,000 people dead and climbing as a consequence of COVID-19 and still, months later, no real leadership or plan from the President of the United States how to get this pandemic under control. No real help for the states and local governments trying to fill the vacuum of leadership from the White House. No real help for children and educators, for small businesses and frontline workers, they’re the ones that are holding our country together. Instead, he’s issuing executive orders and making promises that in the end will defund the Social Security system while insisting that this virus will disappear.

 (27:12)
The Joe Biden and Kamala Harris administration will have a comprehensive plan to meet the challenge of COVID-19 and turn the corner on this pandemic. Masking, clear science-based guidance, dramatically scaling up testing, getting states and local governments the resources they need to open the schools and businesses safely. We can do this. We just need a president and vice president willing to lead and take responsibility. Not as this president says, “It’s not my fault. The governor should thank me more.” As that old saying goes, give me a break. We have an economic crisis and more than 16 million Americans, 16 million, still out of work. Donald Trump is on track to break another record. On track to leave office with the worst jobs records of any American president in modern history, but instead of doing the hard work, of meeting face to face with congressional leaders, Democrats and Republicans in the White House like every other president has done in a crisis, to get Americans the relief they need and deserve, Donald Trump is on the golf course. If I told you this three years ago you’d look at me like I was being crazy. He hasn’t even met with the leadership. He doesn’t have time it appears.

 (28:58)
We have a climate crisis that Donald Trump refuses to even acknowledge. When he thinks about climate change, all we hear is the word hoax. A Biden-Harris administration is going to meet the climate crisis, protect the health of the American public. Along the way, we’re going to deliver one word, jobs. Good paying jobs. We have a racial justice crisis. Donald Trump seeks only to inflame it with his politics of racist rhetoric and appeals to division. Today’s not only the day I’m proud to introduce Senator Kamala Harris as the vice presidential nominee of the Democratic Party. It’s also the third anniversary of that terrible day in Charlottesville. Remember? Remember what it felt like to see those neo-Nazis, close your eyes, and those Klansmen, white supremacists, coming

 (30:03)
… close your eyes, and those Klansmen, white supremacists, coming out of fields, carrying lighted torches, faces contorted, bulging veins, pouring into the streets of a historic American city, spewing the same antisemitic bile we heard in Hitler’s Germany in the ’30s. Remember how it felt to see a violent clash ensue between those celebrating hate and those standing against it? It was a wake up call for all of us as a country. For me, it was a call to action. My father used to say, silence is complicity, not original to him, but he believed it. At that moment, I knew I couldn’t stand by and let Donald Trump, a man who went on to say when asked about what he thought he said, there were very fine people on both sides, “Very fine people on both sides.” No president of the United States of America has ever said anything like that, see him continuing to attack everything that makes America America. I knew we were in the battle for the soul of the nation. That’s when I decided to run. I’m proud now to have Senator Harris at my side in that battle because she shares with the same intensity I do, for she’s someone who knows what’s at stake.

 (31:37)
The question is for all Americans to answer, who are we as a nation? What do we stand for? And most importantly, what do we want to be? Someone who knows that the future of this country is limited only by the barriers we place on our own imaginations because there’s nothing Americans cannot achieve what we put our minds to it and we do it together.

 (32:09)
One of the reasons I chose Kamala is because we both believe that we can define America simply in one word, possibilities. Possibilities. Let me say it again, possibilities. That’s America. That’s what sets this nation apart, is that everyone, everyone, the ability for everyone, and we mean everyone, to go as far and dream as big as hard work and their God-given ability will take them.

 (32:48)
When I agreed to serve as President Obama’s running mate, he asked me a number of questions, as I’ve asked Kamala, but the most important was he asked me, what I wanted most importantly. I told him I wanted to be the last person in the room before he made important decisions. That’s what I asked Kamala, I asked Kamala to be the last voice in the room, to always tell me the truth, which she will, challenge my assumptions if she disagrees, ask the hard questions because that’s the way we make the best decisions for the American people. I got a chance to spend some time at my home today with Kamala and Doug, and I want to thank them. I thanked them then, but thank them publicly for agreeing to join and take this journey with Jill and me. Doug, you’re going to have to learn what it means to be a barrier breaker yourself in this job you’re about to take on, America’s first Second Gentlemen. And although they’re not with us here today, I want to thank Ella and Cole as well.

 (34:07)
I had a chance to speak to Doug’s mom and dad, and Ella and Cole, and we’re going to get our kids together to let them know what’s coming. My grandchildren are about the age of their children. I got to speak to them. My campaign has always been a family affair, every campaign I’ve run. So I’ve got some news for you, you’re all honorary Bidens. And here’s the best part, Kamala, you’ve been an honorary Biden for quite some time.

 (34:47)
I came first to know who Kamala was through our son, Beau Biden. They were friends. They served as attorneys general at the same time. They took on the same big fights together, Kamala in California, Beau here in Delaware. Big fights that helped change the entire country. I know how much Beau respected Kamala and her work, and that mattered a lot to me, to be honest with you, as I made this decision. So now we need to get to work, pulling this nation out of these crises we find ourselves in, getting our economy back on track, uniting this nation, and yes, winning the battle for the soul of America. My fellow Americans, now let me introduce to you for the first time, your next vice president of the United States, Kamala Harris. Kamala, the floor is yours.

 (35:57)
[inaudible 00:35:57] Thank you, Joe.

 (36:03)
Thank you.

 (36:04)
Thank you, Joe. As I said, Joe, when you called me, I am incredibly honored by this responsibility and I’m ready to get to work. I’m ready to get to work.

 (36:19)
After the most competitive primary in history, the country received a resounding message that Joe was the person to lead us forward. Joe, I’m so proud to stand with you. I do so mindful of all the heroic and ambitious women before me whose sacrifice, determination and resilience makes my presence here today even possible. This is a moment of real consequence for America. Everything we care about, our economy, our health, our children, the kind of country we live in, it’s all on the line. We’re reeling from the worst public health crisis in a century. The president’s mismanagement of the pandemic has plunged us into the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and we’re experiencing a moral reckoning with racism and systemic injustice that has brought a new coalition of conscience to the streets of our country, demanding change. America is crying out for leadership, yet we have a president who cares more about himself than the people who elected him. A president who is making every challenge we face even more difficult to solve.

 (37:58)
But here’s the good news, we don’t have to accept the failed government of Donald Trump and Mike Pence in just 83 days. We have a chance to choose a better future for our country. So Joe, Dr. Biden, thank you for the trust you’ve placed in me. Jill, I know you will be an incredible First Lady. My husband, Doug, and I are so grateful to become a part of your extended family.

 (38:39)
Ever since I received Joe’s call, I’ve been thinking, yes, about the first Biden that I really came to know, and that of course is Joe’s beloved son, one of his beloved sons, Beau. In the midst of the Great Recession, Beau and I spoke on the phone practically every day, sometimes multiple times a day, working together to win back billions of dollars for homeowners from the big banks of the nation that were foreclosing on people’s homes.

 (39:14)
Let me just tell you about Beau Biden. I learned quickly that Beau was the kind of guy who inspired people to be a better version of themselves. He really was the best of us. And when I would ask him, “Where did you get that? Where did this come from?” He’d always talk about his dad. I will tell you the love that they shared was incredible to watch. It was the most beautiful display of the love between a father and a son. Beau talked about how Joe would spend four hours every day riding the rails back and forth from Wilmington to Washington so he could make breakfast for his kids in the morning and make it home in time to tuck them in bed each night. All of this so two little boys, who had just lost their mom and their sister in a tragic accident, would know that the world was still turning, and that’s how I came to know Joe.

 (40:26)
He’s someone whose first response when things get tough is never to think about himself, but to care for everyone else. He’s someone who never asks, why is this happening to me? And instead asks, what can I do to make life better for you? His empathy, his compassion, his sense of duty to care for others is why I am so proud to be on this ticket.

 (41:03)
Joe and I, yes, we are cut from the same cloth, family is everything to me too. I cannot wait for America to get to know my husband, Doug, and our amazing kids, Cole and Ella. Because whether I’m cheering in the bleachers at a swim meet, or setting up a college room dorm, or helping my goddaughter prepare for her school debate, or building Legos with my godson, or hugging my two baby nieces, or cooking dinner, Sunday dinner, my family means everything to me. I’ve had a lot of titles over my career, and certainly vice president will be great, but Mamala will always be the one that means the most.

 (41:51)
My mother and father, they came from opposite sides of the world to arrive in America, one from India and the other from Jamaica, in search of a world-class education. But what brought them together was the civil rights movement of the 1960s. That’s how they met, as students in the streets of Oakland, marching and shouting for this thing called justice in a struggle that continues today, and I was part of it. My parents would bring me to protests, strapped tightly in my stroller. My mother, Shyamala, raised my sister, Maya, and me to believe that it was up to us and every generation of Americans to keep on marching. She’d tell us, “Don’t sit around and complain about things, do something.” So I did something, I devoted my life to making real the words carved in the United States Supreme Court, equal justice under law.

 (42:59)
30 years ago, I stood before a judge for the first time, breathed deep and uttered the phrase that would truly guide my career and the rest of my career, Kamala Harris for the people. The people, that’s who I represented as district attorney, fighting on behalf of victims who needed help. The people, that’s who I fought for as California’s Attorney General when I took on transnational criminal organizations who traffic in guns and drugs and human beings. And it’s the people who I have fought for as the United States Senator where I’ve worked every day to hold Trump officials accountable to the American people. And the people are who Joe and I will fight for every day in the White House.

 (43:52)
Let me tell you, as somebody who has presented my fair share of arguments in court, the case against Donald Trump and Mike Pence is open and shut. Just look where they’ve gotten us, more than 16 million out of work, millions of kids who cannot go back to school, a crisis of poverty, of homelessness afflicting black, brown, and indigenous people the most, a crisis of hunger afflicting one in five mothers who have children that are hungry and tragically, more than 165,000 lives that have been cut short, many with loved ones who never got the chance to say goodbye. It didn’t have to be this way. Six years ago, in fact, we had a different health crisis, it was called Ebola. We all remember that pandemic, but you know what happened then? Barack Obama and Joe Biden did their job, only two-

 (45:03)
… and Joe Biden did their job. Only two people in the United States died. Two. That is what’s called leadership. But compare that to the moment we find ourselves in now. When other countries are following the science, Trump pushed miracle cures he saw on Fox News. While other countries were flattening the curve, he said the virus would just poof, go away, quote, like a miracle. So when other countries opened back up for business, what did we do? We had to shut down again. This virus has impacted almost every country, but there’s a reason it has hit America worse than any other advanced nation. It’s because of Trump’s failure to take it seriously from the start, his refusal to get testing up and running, his flip flopping on social distancing and wearing masks, his delusional belief that he knows better than the experts.

 (46:17)
All of that is reason. And the reason that an American dies of COVID-19 every 80 seconds. It’s why countless businesses have had to shut their doors for good. It’s why there is complete chaos over when and how to reopen our schools. Mothers and fathers are confused and uncertain and angry about childcare and the safety of their kids at school. Whether they will be in danger if they go, or fall behind if they don’t. Trump is also the reason millions of Americans are now unemployed. He inherited the longest economic expansion in history from Barack Obama and Joe Biden. And then, like everything else he inherited, he ran it straight into the ground. Because of Trump’s failures of leadership, our economy has taken one of the biggest hits out of all the major industrialized nations with an unemployment rate that has tripled as of today. This is what happens when we elect a guy who just isn’t up for the job. Our country ends up in tatters, and so does our reputation around the world.

 (47:51)
But let’s be clear. This election isn’t just about defeating Donald Trump or Mike Pence. It’s about building this country back better. And that’s exactly what Joe and I will do. We’ll create millions of jobs and fight climate change through a clean energy revolution, bring back critical supply chains so the future is made in America, build on the affordable care act. So everyone has a peace of mind that comes with health insurance, and finally offer caregivers the dignity, the respect, and the pay they deserve. We’ll protect a woman’s right to make her own decisions about her own body, root out systemic racism in our justice system, and pass a new voting rights act. A John Lewis voting rights act that will ensure every voice is heard and every voice is counted.

 (48:55)
The civil rights struggle is nothing new to Joe. It’s why he got into public service. It’s why he helped reauthorize the voting rights act and restore unemployment discrimination and employment discrimination laws. And today, he takes his place in the ongoing story of America’s march toward equality and justice, as the only, as the only who has served alongside the first black president and has chosen the first black woman as his running mate. But as Joe always points out, this election is about more than politics. It’s about who we are as a country. And I’ll admit over the past four years, there have been moments when I have truly worried about our future. But whenever I think that there is a reason for doubt, whenever I’ve had my own doubts, I think of you, the American people, the doctors and nurses and frontline workers who are risking your lives to save others, the truck drivers and the workers in grocery stores, in factories, in farms, working there, putting your own safety on the line to help us get through this pandemic. The women and students taking to the streets in unprecedented numbers. The dreamers and immigrants who know that families belong together. The LGBTQ Americans who know that love is love. People of every age and color and creed who are finally declaring in one voice that yes, black lives matter.

 (50:38)
All across this country, a whole new generation of children is growing up hearing the cries for justice and the chance of hope on which I was raised. Some strapped into strollers of their own. And trust me, it’s a song you’ll never forget. So to everyone, keeping up the fight, you are doing something. You are doing something great. You are the heroes of our time and you are the reason I know we are going to bring our country closer to realizing its great promise, but to do it, we’ll need to work, organize and vote like never before, because we need more than a victory on November 3rd. We need a mandate that proves that the past few years do not represent who we are or who we aspire to be.

 (51:36)
Joe likes to say that character is on the ballot. And it’s true. When he saw what happened in Charlottesville three years ago today, he knew we were in a battle for the soul of our nation. And together with your help, that’s a battle we will win. Earlier this year, I said, “I do whatever Joe asks me to do.” And so now I’m asking you to do the same. So visit joebiden.com to get involved in this campaign and vote, because electing Joe Biden is just the start of the work ahead of us. And I couldn’t be prouder to be by his side, running to represent you, the people. Thank you and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.



Hello, NALEO. How are you? Good to see you again, Arturo. I want to say a special hi to my good friend, and he is my good friend, Secretary Daley. Billy, it’s been a long time, pal. Glad to see you looking so well. I look forward to seeing you pretty soon. I’m honored to be with you all today, and I want to start by thanking Arturo for this opportunity to share my vision for Latinos in our country. If I have the honor of being elected president, I want to thank you for your opening remarks, and I’m going to need you if I get elected. Not just getting elected, if I get elected.

 (09:21)
Throughout our decades and your decades, I think I go way back. I may have been at that 39 years ago when you started, decades leading NALEO Education Fund. We’ve seen a lot of ups and downs in the Latino community, but none more stark than the last three and a half years. Donald Trump and his administration have pursued an all out assault. That’s how I phrase it, assault on Latino communities, from the moment he came down that golden escalator saying he was going to go after those Mexicans rapists. Remember? That’s how he started his campaign. It started the moment he announced his presidency, fanning the flames of fear and racism against Latinos.

 (10:02)
The flames of fear and racism against Latinos. It’s baked into every aspect of how he’s governed. And this week was an especially poignant reminder of the terrible consequence, allowing that kind of hate to grow, to grow unchecked. You know, I thought we could defeat hate, but and it only hides under the rocks. And when a president breathes oxygen in, it comes out roaring out.

 (10:25)
On Monday, we marked the one year anniversary of the tragic mass shooting in El Paso, where a gunman explicitly sought to target Latinos and 23 beautiful lives were stolen from us and their families. I know what it’s like to lose a child. And I know what it was like to lose a wife. It is awful. It is starkly. I shouldn’t get started. You know, the stakes of Trump’s irresponsible policies of division and hate that he promotes is real. These are life and death decisions. Whether it’s repeated attacks on Dreamers or his campaign of terror against immigrant communities, whether it’s his neglect of the people of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, which is outrageous or his repeated failures to make sure essential workers have the personal protective equipment they need. Donald Trump has failed the Latino community time and time again.

 (11:25)
So the question you ask Arturo, how are we going to make real a better life for Latinos? That’s the key question, and the future of our country literally depends on how we answer it. That’s how important it is. Because here’s the God’s honest truth, the future success that our country are going to depend on our ability to make sure Latinos have opportunities and the tools to succeed. Latino is among the fastest growing population in the United States. Already one quarter of our school children, one quarter of our school children are Latino. How in God’s name can we have a strong and thriving Republic if we don’t fully deal Latinos into every aspect of American life? These kids are not someone else’s kids, they’re our kids. The kite strings that lift our national ambitions aloft.

 (12:16)
That’s why earlier this week I released my Latino agenda. Things I’ve been working on all along and you know about, but I put them all in one place. It’s a comprehensive plan for not just how we’re going to undo all the harms that the Trump administration has inflicted, but how we’re going to really make sure Latinos are included in our plans to build back and build back better. That means investing in Latino’s economics mobility, because that’s the best basis of it all, economic mobility. Everything from making sure Latino small business owners can access capital to making it easy for Latino families to buy a home to build intergenerational wealth. How did every other middle class person do it when they came here? They were able to ultimately buy a home and build equity in the home and pass it on from generation to generation.

 (13:10)
One of the four planks of my Build Back Better plan is about addressing racial inequities across the entire economy. It’s about breaking the cycle where in good times, Latino communities still lag behind. In bad times, they get hit first and the hardest as you referenced, Arturo. And in recovery, they take the longest to bounce back and only get back to where they were at the beginning, which wasn’t a good place to begin with. We’re going to use every tool at our disposal to take on these inequities.

 (13:39)
My Latino agenda also focused on any race based health disparities. Latinos were among the biggest beneficiaries of the Affordable Care Act with millions gaining insurance for the first time. The uninsured rate dropped from 32% to 19%, and my plan would bring it down to zero. That’s what an incredible win, it was a significant win for Latino community. But now in the midst of a pandemic, when almost 160,000 dead, those families lost part of their soul, part of their heart. Donald Trump is trying to strip people off their healthcare coverage in court in the middle of a pandemic. And Latinos are burying some of the heaviest burdens, go through the higher rates of infection and because Latinos disproportionately serve in caregiving roles on the frontline jobs and increase the risk of exposure and save other people. It’s unconscionable.

 (14:39)
I’m going to protect Obamacare and build on it with a public option, so every single person can have access to high-quality, affordable healthcare. When it comes to fighting this pandemic, we have to be crystal clear. Everyone gets free access to testing and treatment. And when it’s available, a vaccine, everyone gets it. We have to fight this virus without regard to immigrant status. That’s the only way we’re going to beat this thing. And it’s only humane thing to do.

 (15:12)
We’re also going to expand access to high-quality education and take on the racial inequities in our education system. That starts early. We are making sure high-quality pre-K is available to every child, three and four years old. Because the studies show that increases exponentially the prospects of success through the entire 12 years. It goes all the way through making sure post high school education is affordable for Latino students, ensuring public colleges and universities are tuition free for families making less than $125,000 a year, doubling Pell Grants, $12,000, increasing funding for Hispanic serving institutions.

 (15:54)
I started today by speaking about the tragedy in El Paso one year ago. We also know Latinos suffer every day from hate crimes and gun violence. It doesn’t always make national headlines. Under the Biden administration, we’re going to get weapons of war and high capacity magazines out of our communities. I’m going to take the fight directly to the NRA and hold gun manufacturers accountable for the damage they caused to Latino families. Finally, we’re going to restore our values as a nation of immigrants.

 (16:27)
Trump fails to understand the basic truth of immigrants. That they’re the incredible source of our nation’s strength and they always have been. All the way back to the 1860s, when my Irish ancestors jumped on coffin ships in the Irish sea, not knowing where they are going, not knowing whether they’re going to make it to the shore all the way to today. There’s the reason we’ve been able to constantly renew and remake ourselves because we’ve been able to cherry pick the best of every culture. It takes courage to leave and come here from every continent, from every background. That’s why we’re who we are.

 (17:03)
If I’m elected president, we’re going to immediately end Trump’s assault on the dignity of immigrant communities. We’re going to restore our moral standing in the world and our historic role as a safe haven for refugees and asylum seekers, and those fleeing violence and persecution. My Lord, we’ve never made asylum seekers stay, seek asylum outside the United States of America. We’re going to stop the inhumane practice of separating children from their parents and work to reunite families. Look at all the families that are not reunited. We’re going to stop detaining people and definitely invest instead on case management programs to help ensure migrants get the support they need while they’re navigating the asylum process. It’s going to cost a lot of money, but it’s a hell of a lot cheaper than building a wall. We’re going to restore a sensible enforcement priorities and stop terrorizing Latino communities.

 (17:59)
The idea is you wait outside the 10 o’clock mass to grab someone from church. The anxiety for the children, the anxiety is overwhelming. It’s going to have a profound impact on a generation. We’re going to protect Dreamers and their families, and every single agreement that the Trump administration signed to turn local law enforcement and immigration officials. On day one, I’m going to send Congress a bill for immigration reform. We’ll focus on keeping families together. It’s about families, including providing a clear roadmap to citizenship for 11 million undocumented alien and undocumented immigrants. Stop treating them the way they’re being treated. We’re going to live in enriching our communities every single day.

 (18:51)
I know that’s a pretty big agenda, but this is a moment to get it done. The pandemic has lift the blinders off so many people in this country on who’s really essential to our economic strength. It’s not Wall Street bankers or CEOs. The middle class hardworking union members fighting for the rights of all workers, the folks in the Latino community who are busting their necks every day to keep the country running. And I believe, I really do believe we’re ready to close the respect gap, the dignity gap, the wage gap, the opportunity gap. So many Latino workers have suffered for so long.

 (19:34)
You know my dad used to have an expression, he say, “Joey …” When he lost the job up in Scranton and we had to move down to Delaware and my dad never went to college. He was a graceful, good man. He used to say, “Joey, a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about honor. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.’” That’s what we’re going to do. Dignity, honor, treating people.

 (20:03)
… Do, dignity, honor, treating people with dignity. We can build a new administration that reflects the full diversity of our nation, and the full diversity of the Latino communities. Now, when I mean full diversity, unlike the African-American community and many other communities, you’re from everywhere. They’re from Europe, from the tip of South America, all the way to our border in Mexico and in the Caribbean. And different backgrounds. Different ethnicities, but all Latinos. We’re going to get a chance to do that if we win in November. It means we need everyone to get out and vote. I can’t do this without your help.

 (20:49)
The path to victory in November is contingent upon Latino voters, particularly in those battleground states. I’m committed to speaking directly to the concerns of the Latino community and to mobilizing Latino voters. I have a significant staff. We’re trying to advertise on Latino stations, on Spanish-speaking stations. We need every single voter to sign up and get engaged in our campaign. We need you to get out and vote with your family and your friends. And make sure that people know how to register and how to vote safely during the pandemic.

 (21:27)
We need to provide voters with more options, not fewer. Need to expand the option for participation. No excuse absentee ballots, when you get an absentee ballot just because you need one and want one. Increased in-person early voting. Have enough poll workers who can sanitize the machines and make sure we can socially distance and wearing masks. A lot of taking away meaningful opportunities to go in-person on election day. Our campaign is putting together the largest voter protection effort in the United States’ history because we know that we have to. We’ve already seen the impact that the pandemic has had on voting rights and voting during the primaries. We know. We know that voter suppression was alive and well in America before the public health crisis.

 (22:18)
And make no mistake about it, as you pointed out, the Census is part of this, too. Everyone needs to be counted. Four former Census Bureau directors who have worked under nine presidents, both Democrats and Republicans, have called on the Senate and the administration to work to extend the deadline so we’d get an accurate count. Arturo, you mentioned the Voting Rights Act at the beginning. Well, today happens to be the 55th anniversary of its enactment. I worked like hell to strengthen and extend that Voting Act when I was chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. Throughout my career, going back to 1975, back then, in 2013 though the Supreme Court came along and stripped the teeth out of the Voting Rights Act. It’s of the preclearance provision, they said was no longer necessary. I’m going to make sure it’s reinserted if the Congress doesn’t get it done in the remaining months of this Congress.

 (23:18)
Just last year, 29 states, 29 states introduced or carried over bills that tried to make it harder for people to vote. This blatantly Unamerican. Our democracy, one person, one vote. That’s the very heart of who we are. And if the Senate, Republican Senate, Mitch McConnell and Donald Trump, don’t take up the bill, newly renamed in honor of my friend John Lewis to restore the Voting Rights Act to its full power, I will make it a priority on day one that we do that if I’m elected president.

 (23:59)
So, I guess what I really want to say is just thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. And thank you again, Arturo, and everyone at NALEO for the work you’ve been doing. You make the country stronger. You make us all better. That’s not hyperbole. You make us all better, and the country is better, stronger, more prosperous, more decent, more honorable if we, in fact, reach out and embrace the largest population of immigrants in the United States and include them across the board. It’s a source of amazing strength for us. What I said, “I think because this COVID crisis and unemployment crisis” I think the American people are seeing that now. Least I hope that’s the case. I’m going to need your help if I’m elected to get all this done.

 (24:57)
May God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you.




Streaming now from the National Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Hispanic Journalists an interview with 2020 Democratic presidential candidate and former vice president, Joe Biden.

 (00:40)
Everybody knows who Donald Trump is and we have to let them know who we are and what we stand for.

Barack Obama: (00:46)
I’m so proud to endorse Joe Biden for President of the United States.

Julian Castro: (00:50)
He’s the candidate that meets this moment.

Kamala Harris: (00:53)
Racial justice is on the ballot in 2020, and Joe Biden is on the ballot in 2020.

Speaker 1: (01:01)
On the interview panel: Two-time author and Mexico border correspondent for the Dallas Morning News, Alfredo Corchado; Washington correspondent for the Atlanta Journal Constitution, Tia Mitchell; former foreign correspondent and host of NPR’s Weekend Edition, Lulu Garcia-Navarro; and CBS News national correspondent, Errol Barnett.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (01:27)
Mr. Vice President, thank you so much for joining us today.

 (01:29)
Thank you.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (01:30)
I am going to jump right in.

 (01:32)
Okay.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (01:33)
Because there is of course a question on everybody’s mind, I’m sure you know what it is. Have you selected your vice president and who is she?

 (01:41)
Well, since this is embargoed to Thursday, I’m not going to tell you.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (01:47)
Do you know who she is yet? I mean, there are 11 names circulating. There has been some criticism within your party that the process has been messy. It’s been drawn out. How many women are on the shortlist exactly?

 (02:00)
Well, first of all, if they think it’s been drawn out, they’ve not watched any other vice presidential picks in history. This is in fact ahead of time, as a matter of fact. Notice most vice presidential nominees aren’t announced until a day, two or three before the convention. I’ve gone through it. It’s been very orderly. Every one of the women we’ve interviewed is qualified. I’ve narrowed it down, and I’ll be ready to make that ann-

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (02:28)
How many? To how many, sir?

 (02:28)
You’ll find out shortly. You’ll find out shortly.

Errol Barnett: (02:33)
Just want to follow up to you on that point, Mr. President.

 (02:35)
Sure.

Errol Barnett: (02:35)
Mr. Vice President, you’ve been through this experience before, the vetting process, the speculation, but someone on your own VP selection committee, former Senator Chris Dodd, reportedly has been critic critical of some in contention like Senator Kamala Harris for not being more conciliatory since she went toe to toe with you during the debates. He says that’s a reason she should be disqualified. Is that fair?

 (03:03)
No. Well, he didn’t say that to the press. He was talking to somebody offline and it was repeated. Now I don’t hold grudges. I’ve made it really clear that I don’t hold grudges. I think it was a debate. It’s as simple as that, and she’s very much contention.

Errol Barnett: (03:19)
Now on day one of your presidency, if we listen to the scientists and the doctors, as you say you will do, you’re likely to begin your presidency in the middle of this ongoing pandemic. How likely is a rollback on day one of the re-openings of businesses that we’ve seen nationwide?

 (03:40)
That’s a good question, but an unfair question, because I have no idea what this president’s going to leave me with. If he acts responsibly, which he hasn’t done thus far, if he acts responsibly I may be in a position where we don’t have to roll back. But if he continues to walk away, wave the white flag and just say open and then listen to some quacks telling him that what we should be doing and you can mass cause COVID-19, the whole thing is he’s got to be more responsible. It depends on what I inherit to determine what I’ll be able to do and say and should be saying on the day I sworn in, if that in fact happens.

Errol Barnett: (04:19)
Based on what you see now, would you roll back the re-openings?

 (04:24)
I’m not going to speculate on that, because I don’t know what it’s going to be.

Errol Barnett: (04:27)
Based on what you see now? If you were president today.

 (04:33)
Oh, I’m sorry, if I were president today, I would roll back the re-openings in a number of places because, look, it’s clear mask and social distancing make a gigantic difference in terms of the spread of this disease. It’s simple, it’s factual, it’s real. Everyone, wherever there is a significant percentage of people with COVID should be required to keep social distancing and masks. Bars should not be open. There should not be congregations of more than 10 people. We should have circumstances where, in fact, we act responsibly, including in places of work where people are, where they’re able to go in and continue to work in terms of social distancing testing and alike. He’s done none of that. None of that is part of what he is suggesting.

 (05:23)
I’ve laid out in detail what I would do and all the way back in January, when this first came out. Then I did again in March, talked about how I would invoke the Defense Act to require significant stockpiling of PPE. I would also have made sure that we wouldn’t have fired the overseers of the folks who determined the allocation of the money that the Congress has allocated so that the inspector generals know where the money’s going. I have laid out in detail what I thought he should be doing with regard to the OSHA and the standards that are required for businesses to open. I’ve laid it all out, and he’s followed none of it.

Tia Mitchell: (06:11)
Mr. Vice president, …

 (06:12)
Yes?

Tia Mitchell: (06:12)
How often are you being briefed on the pandemic and who’s in charge of keeping you up to date on what’s going on?

 (06:21)
Four times a week, an hour a day. I just went through an 87 page memo with my team, including Vivek Murthy, who you know, and other docs, former heads of the CDC that are part of an entire team that I have, that we put together and go through it at least four times a week. I spent an hour-and-a-half today on the telephone. I mean, excuse me, on what we’re doing right now, on camera.

Tia Mitchell: (06:51)
Based on what you’ve heard, a lot of people are concerned about schools, do you think children should be in schools in person while we’re waiting on a vaccine to be developed?

 (07:02)
The answer is it depends. Look, I want our schools to open. The question is, will the president do the work he needs to make them safe? Just ordering your schools to open, like Trump has done, isn’t it going to be good enough.

 (07:13)
I’ve laid out a roadmap to reopen schools safely and effectively. First, get the cases down in the communities through social distancing, masking, testing, tracing, and PPE. Second, give school districts uniform guidance without political interference on effectively and safely, the safety protocols, including ventilation, physical changes in classrooms. Third, give those districts the resources to implement the guidance. Studies show that we need $34 billion to make school safe nationwide. For schools that can’t reopen safely, help them improve the virtual learning. Start working now to close the learning gap in terms of distance learning because of COVID. President Trump should stop tweeting and start doing his work.

Errol Barnett: (07:59)
What’s key to people feeling safe to go back to work and school is a vaccine. A recent CBS News, UGOV poll found that some 70% of Americans would either wait to get a vaccine and see what happens to other people or not get one at all. That’s a huge segment of the population. How then would you secure that every American gets a vaccine as soon as possible considering that distrust?

 (08:27)
Tell the truth. Listen to the science. Lay out explicitly whatever vaccine comes first. Make it totally open for review by every medical facility in the country, making clear that in fact it is safe, instead of what Trump is talking about. He’s talking about all these different vaccines. They’re going to be ready to go, and so on and so forth.

 (08:54)
Much earlier I laid out what would we constitute a business being able to reopen. When I talked about it, I said we should have a circumstance where they were able to meet all the criteria that are recommended by the CDC and others and be able to put on a sticker on their window saying, like a good housekeeping seal, “You can come in here because we test, we distance, we do all alike.”

 (09:20)
The fact is that the way he talks about the vaccine is not particularly rational. He’s talking it being ready. He’s going to talk about moving it quicker than the scientists think it should be moved. It matters to let the people know that it is all transparent, exactly what the facts are. Let the medical community writ large speak to it so that there’s transparency. Look, I think people are going to, as the poll show and we talked about it today with the two docs and my staff, that in fact people don’t believe that he’s telling the truth. Therefore, they’re not at all certain they’re going to take the vaccine. One more thing, if and when the vaccine comes, and it’s not likely to go through all the tests that needs and the trials that are needed to be done, and the question is, is he going to seek emergency move? Well, I think it’s really important right now. I proposed a $25 billion plan for the distribution to guarantee that every single American has access to the vaccine because what’s going to happen, you know as well as I do, if the vaccine came out tomorrow, how in the heck would we get it to people? There is no game plan they have. How would everybody in America have access to it? It is a gigantic, gigantic problem to distribute, even if we have it. That’s we should be planning for now. Now. Not when we get it.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (10:46)
Mr. Vice President, I’d like to ask you about healthcare because obviously this pandemic has exposed many weaknesses in healthcare. In your platform, you’d extend medical benefits to DACA recipients. But what about the workers who have no protection, specifically farm workers now deemed essential to make Americans sure that they have food on their table? Should undocumented immigrants also be able to get subsidized healthcare?

 (11:15)
If they are working in the United States of America and they are paying taxes, they should have access to healthcare. They should have access to what everybody else has access to. The most important thing to do-

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (11:27)
This is every undocumented worker?

 (11:30)
No, it depends. Not all undocumented workers are working. You say on every undocumented worker. Every person in the country, whether they’re undocumented or documented, should have access to a vaccine if and when it occurs, should have access to testing and treatment and hospitalization, if it relates to the virus. That should occur, period. It’s in the interest of everyone that everyone be taken care of, and everyone should be able to be eligible for that.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (12:02)
Just to clarify, you are saying that if you are undocumented, you would be able to get a vaccine for free, subsidized?

 (12:08)
Yes. Yes.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (12:11)
I’d also like to ask you this, this pandemic has exposed, as I’ve mentioned, so many weaknesses in the healthcare system. The most vulnerable, often black and brown communities, have been handling much of the financial burden. Before the pandemic, you were against comprehensive single-payer system. Now, if Medicare-For-All came across your desk, as the pandemic has hit so hard, would you veto it?

 (12:40)
It’s not going to come across my desk. But, look, the pandemic has not only torn through our nation, devastating families and wrecking economies, it’s exacerbated some of the worst inequities. I’m going to fight for health equities, but the quickest way to get that is for black and Latino Americans to have access to the Obamacare with a public option. That’s the quickest way we can get everybody covered.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (13:07)
But hasn’t this pandemic and the tsunami of layoffs shown the limits of private health care that is tied to employment?

 (13:14)
No, it hasn’t, in my view. There’s countries that have, in fact, single-payer systems that hadn’t helped them very much either. The question is, what do we do about corralling the pandemic and treating those who are affected by it? Everyone who’s affected by the pandemic has access to free care for anything having to do with that pandemic.

Errol Barnett: (13:38)
Now, some of your most ambitious legislative goals, Mr. Vice President, are likely to face fierce Republican resistance. In fact, President Obama during his eulogy for civil rights icon John Lewis said the way to fully restore the Voting Rights Act is to abolish the Senate filibuster. Do you agree?

 (13:59)
I don’t think we have to. We’re going to be able to do that anyway. Look, we’re going to elect-

 (14:03)
I don’t think we have to, we’re going to be able to do that anyway. Look where we’re going to elect at least five to six democratic senators. The Democrats are going to control-

Errol Barnett: (14:09)
That still won’t get you enough of a super majority-

 (14:10)
No, no.

Errol Barnett: (14:12)
To veto.

 (14:12)
That’s your judgment. That’s your judgment. I’m pretty good at this. I’ve done that pretty well my whole career in the United States Senate. I got a lot done and here’s the deal. The deal is that with President Trump gone and the fear of retribution and his, how can I say it? His ego of following and ruining any Republican who disagrees with him, that’s gone. That’s gone, number one. Number two, you’re going to see a lot of Republicans, at least a half a dozen of them, beginning to vote their conscience because they no longer have the fear of Trump being there. And thirdly, when we gain control of the United States Senate, which I believe we will on the House, you’re going to find people willing to take a vote that was controversial before, because this time it will pass.

 (15:04)
There’s no sense in making the reason why … The way human nature works and you all work the same way, if you’re going to have to go against the grain of the folks you hang out with in order to vote for something that is not going to pass anyway, you’re not going to take the shot. But if you’re hanging out with a group of people as against the grain, but you know it’s going to pass with your vote, then that’s a very different thing. I just don’t believe that you’re going to have this kind of resistance before, that we had before.

 (15:34)
And by the way, everybody said, we didn’t get anything done. After President was elected, after Trump was elected, before he was sworn in, I put together a coalition to Democrats and Republicans to provide for over $9 billion to NIH and almost $2 billion for cancer research. We only had something like a hundred votes for it in the house and we only had something like 36 in the Senate. It passed in January. It passed in late December, before he was sworn in. 96 votes in the Senate, over 398 votes in the House. Everybody’s telling me we can’t get things done. We’ll get it done.

Errol Barnett: (16:18)
Just to be clear, you do not agree with president Obama that getting rid of the filibuster is necessary. He described it as a relic of Jim Crow.

 (16:26)
What I said was that if in fact they are as obstreperous as is expected, we’d have to get rid of the filibuster, but the filibuster has also saved a lot of bad things from happening too.

 (16:43)
Yeah, no, no, I’m sorry. I thought … I’m on record as saying that if the Republicans, if there’s no way to move, other than getting rid of the filibuster, that’s what we’ll do.

Tia Mitchell: (16:57)
I’ll jump in Mr. Vice President and ask, as we’re talking about elections, the pandemic, as you know, is keeping a lot of people at home and there’s a lot of interest in voting by mail, but there has been a lot of comments from President Trump and other Republicans casting doubt on the security of the election system. What should states be doing now to ensure voter confidence in the election?

 (17:22)
What many of them are doing, voter suppression is what he’s trying to make a big deal out of it. There’s nothing we’re more focused on because frankly, this is the thing that keeps me up most nights, making sure everyone who wants to vote gets to vote, making sure that everyone’s vote is counted. And we’re going to undertake a historic effort in terms of resources, commitment, to beat back every voter suppression effort and to make sure that the voters know that every legal option available. Our campaign has a strong, effective voter protection and anti voter suppression program. Voter protection campaigns we’re putting together for November, meet the unique requirements and challenges that we’re facing from this president. No campaign has ever built anything to the scale that we’ve built to make sure we can get out the vote. We have a major, major dedicated operation in states to address the head on voter suppression and any form of that’s going to take and steps we can take to go to court as well.

 (18:22)
But look, think about this. Did you ever think you’d live in a country where you had a President of the United States saying, “Let’s postpone an election.” People see through this. You have five mail in state voting places, two of them overwhelming Republicans. Republicans support mail in voting. Republicans. We saw with COVID has done to elections during the primaries. And we know there are voter suppression problems that have nothing to do with COVID.

 (18:51)
We’re going to be prepared to make sure people have an opportunity to be protected when they show up in person to vote and we’re going to have to work with election officials in key cities and battleground states to increase the number of early voting locations and in one recent case, almost double the number of people showed up to vote. In States where the law permits, we’re going to be providing voters, absentee ballot request forms, pre paid postage, and the like. We’re trying to raise money to be able to do that. The House when they passed the Cares Act, they provided $400 million for a voter to help states improve their voting systems. What’s the president doing? He’s talking about defunding the post office for God’s sake. What more do you need? Yes?

Alfredo Corchado: (19:43)
I’m sitting in El Paso, Texas, and it’s been one year since a gunman walked into a Walmart and killed 23 people. He told police, he came to kill Mexicans. This is the largest attack on Latinos in modern history. You’ve accused President Trump of bearing responsibility for the rise in hate crimes. How do you convince white supremacists that minority groups are vital to restore in the soul of America?

 (20:14)
I don’t convince white supremacists. They’re not going to be convinced. They have to be put in jail when they do things that are inappropriate. White supremacists are not going to be convinced, but the vast, vast, vast majority of people are not white supremacists. Look, here’s the deal. I’ve been involved in civil rights my whole life and one of the things I thought was that I thought we could really defeat hate. I thought there’s a way to defeat it. And when I got out of law school, I came back, my city was in flames. My city was the only city, Wilmington, Delaware, occupied by the National Guard for 10 months since the Civil War, it just hadn’t happened since then. And so what happened? What happened was, I came back, had a good job, decided to leave it, become a public defender.

 (21:04)
And I used to interview my clients down by the railroad station and here I was 40 years ago later to the month, standing under that same railroad station, waiting for a black man to come and pick me up to take me to Washington DC, be sworn in as President and Vice President of United States. So I called my three children up. My son was the Attorney General of the state of Delaware. My other son was the head of the world food program USA. And my daughter’s a social worker dealing with criminal justice. And so I said, “Don’t tell me things can’t change, look.” I looked over the East side and I said, “That was all barren and burned to the ground. Now it’s moving and so on.” And so I thought you could defeat hate.

 (21:47)
The reason I’m running is because of Donald Trump’s, what he said when those folks came out of the fields in Charlottesville. I realized hate doesn’t go away, it just hides. And when a president breaths oxygen under the rocks, he pulls them out. He legitimizes them. They make up a significant minority of the American public, but left unattended, they grow, they grow and they cause great damage. And that’s why we have to make sure we do a whole range of things. There’s a lot of things we’re going to do because look, for the first time, you have over 70% of the American people concluding that black lives matter. The phrase Black Lives Matter. You have almost as many whites marching with blacks to say, “Let’s end this systemic racism in America.” I think the country’s ready. They’re ready because they know we can make significant progress and they know the reason why they’ve been saved from COVID is because of the Latino and black communities have been doing all the hard work.

 (22:49)
You got thousands of DACA students out there doing the mainline work and making sure that people are safe. You have all kinds of folks, the woman making sure she’s stacking the grocery shelf to make sure we have food to eat. The farm worker, you talked about ma’am, but was making sure we have the food to get in the table. They’ve figured it out. And we have a confluence of three things that have happened, that are going to give us an enormous opportunity to change the dynamic in America. One, the COVID pandemic, two, the gigantic unemployment, three, the systemic racism that is so, so, so exposed. We can now move in a direction. That’s why I put this Build Back Better plan together, focusing the last, the last piece on racial equity. We can do this. The country’s ready. They know we must. I’m confident.

Errol Barnett: (23:43)
Mr. Vice President, I want to follow up on your point to Alfredo’s question that white supremacists can’t be convinced. You just said there that the extreme right wing folks in the country left unattended, will grow. Shouldn’t there be some sentiment to reach out to people who hold racist views to convince them otherwise?

 (24:04)
No, that’s different. That’s different than the white … Look, you’re talking about white supremacists. I thought you were talking about the people like the kid who showed up in El Paso and gunned down all those innocent people. Okay? That’s what we’re talking about. The Klu Klux Klan and the like, the white supremacists, those who belong to those groups, they are a minority. I’m reaching out to everyone else. I’ve done it my whole career. My state is the eighth largest black population in the United States of America as a percent of population. That’s where I started. That’s my support. That’s what I’ve been working with my whole career. And you can deal with those who, in fact, are prejudice. A lot of prejudice out there, but not everyone’s a white supremacist, like the kid who went in and gunned down those folks in El Paso. There’s a difference.

Errol Barnett: (24:54)
Now, you’ve apologized for your role in the 1994 Crime Bill that created the Three Strikes Law, expanded the list of crimes punishable by death. What will you do now to make up for what you have described as the pain brought by that bill, that many people still feel today?

 (25:13)
Well, let’s get something straight. The bill at the time it was passed, was overwhelmingly passed with every major black mayor in America. The black caucus supported it and violent crime against African Americans, fell by 57%. It had things in it that I did not like at all, like three strikes and you’re out, which I argued against. It also had some very good things in it; assault weapons ban, drug courts, it made sure that we were in a position where we were going to focus on dealing with rehabilitation. One third of it went to prevention, one third to rehabilitation, all of those things they in fact made sense. On balanced the whole bill, there were only three provisions that were really bad. One was three strikes and you’re out and two was a mandatory … And only employed twice.

 (26:08)
And two, the idea that carjacking was a mandatory minimum penalty, if you were convicted of it and three, money for state prisons, all three of which I opposed. But on balance, it was a much, much, much better bill. And so now we face a different problem. We have too many people in prison. That’s why President Obama and I reduced the federal population by 38,000. Of all the people in prison today, 93% are behind a bar in a state prison, a county jail and or a city jail. As we passed the Fair Sentencing Act, to reduce sentences related to crack cocaine. I’m running on a plan to reform the criminal justice system so we can fix it. It should be a rehabilitation system.

 (26:55)
No one should go to jail for a drug offense, for example, which I’ve argued for a long time. They should go to mandatory treatment. We automatically wipe out anyone’s record for using marijuana. Once people get out of the system, all their rights should be restored, including the Pell Grants and voting rights and access to housing. We also have to expand the power of the justice department to adjust systemic misconduct by police departments and prosecutors and establish an independent taskforce on prosecutorial discretion. That’s what I’ve been pushing. And I’ve been pushing in for now a long time. We’re going to get that passed.

Tia Mitchell: (27:29)
The city of Asheville, North Carolina recently approved what they call reparations to their African American community in the form of home ownership, affordable housing and access to capital for businesses. My question for you is, do you think the American government owes black people reparations and what form, if so, should it take?

 (27:54)
I think the studies suggested by my friend, Cory Booker, should be followed through and seen. In the meantime, we can’t wait. If you take a look at my Build Back Better plan, which you probably haven’t had a…

 (28:03)
Meantime, we can’t wait. If you take a look at my Bill Back Better plan, which you probably haven’t had a chance to read, it does all the things that Asheville just did. It provides for a down payment, first time down payment of $15,000 for black Americans and Hispanic Americans seeking housing and invest significantly more money in public housing, we used to call it public housing, subsidized rental. Nobody should be paying more than 30% of their income for rent. It fundamentally alters access to capital across the board for small businesses. They’re the vast majority. We have already 400,000 black, small business gone out of business. That should not be happening. They should be at the front of the line. I propose that we take the program Barack and I put together that said that there’s 1,000,000,005 that brought $3 billion off the sidelines for entrepreneurs, black entrepreneurs and [inaudible 00:29:01] has chased that to-

Alfredo Corchado: (29:03)
If I may, you rolled out a plan this week for Latinos. My first question is what took you so long to come up with a plan for the largest minority group in the country? And this plan talks a lot about the urgent actions. What’s at the top of that list.

 (29:22)
Well, first of all, everything in that plan, I’ve already said over the last year and a half, we just packaged it together. So everybody knew what it was. And so is a one place. Number one, the most urgent thing is to fix the… First of all, every executive order this president has issued relating to the border and relating to dealing with the Hispanic community is going to be pulled back. We’re not going to be fooling with that here. First thing I’m going to do and I’ve already written, sent to the United States Congress a path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented folks. DACA is going to be preserved period. Period. And you’re going to be put on a path to citizenship. We’re going to invest in economic mobility, invest in wealth inside Latino communities especially Latino businesses, and ensuring Latinos have access to credit and capital by providing Latino businesses access to participate in federal contracts and critical assistance programs, ensuring economic relief reaches Latino businesses.

 (30:26)
That’s what my whole plan about manufacturing the United States and dealing with all the public money being spent under the control of the president. That is one that will in fact be available, those contracts and that chain, that supply chain for manufacturing is owned by many small business people, Latinos, as well as African Americans and other minorities. We’re going to expand that. I’m going to finish this answer. And the last piece is we’re going to tackle the inequities in education. That’s why I’m tripling the money for title one schools, providing university and pre-kindergarten… all across the board. We’re going to make sure that the funding gap is existed. We’re going to expand STEM curricula. We’re going to deal with underserved schools, and we’re going to make sure that anyone who comes from a family making less than $125,000 has free access to four years of public education college. There’s a lot more. So anyway.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (31:30)
Thank you. Thank you for that. I have a few questions that I’d just like to get through because they are incredibly important to the Latino community. First of all, you are extending TPS, temporary protected status, to Venezuelans. Cubans though, are now being deported in unprecedented numbers. Would you stop those deportations?

 (31:48)
What I said, I’m going to look at every single country in the world that in fact is being… and this guy’s sending them back. The reason why I came up with Venezuela is he not even allowing it to exist in the first place. And so the TPS program is something I will move on the first day I’m in office to make sure that we extend it to people. For too long we didn’t get it right, but here’s the deal. I think that we should be extending it. Anybody can prove that they are in jeopardy to go back to their country and the reason they came in the first place. They should be able to stay in the United States of America until the circumstance changes in our country. And that’s why, by the way, I put that program together to provide… Oh, go ahead. I’m sorry.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (32:41)
No. No. Are you going to reengage with Cuba though? I mean, I’m specifically wondering about the Florida communities that are incredibly interested in the Cuba issue and see status given to Venezuelans while Cubans are being deported. So will you engage with Cuba?

 (33:03)
The answer is yes. Yes. Yes. And by the way, what you all know, but most people don’t know, unlike the African American community with notable exceptions, the Latino community is an incredibly diverse community, with incredibly different attitudes about different things. You go to Florida, you find a very different attitude about immigration in certain places than you do when you’re in Arizona. So it’s a very different, a very diverse community.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (33:29)
So president Obama was known as the deporter in chief from moving more than 3 million people during the Biden Obama administration. Trump campaigned to build that wall. I did. No. The Obama Biden administration. Trump campaigned on build that wall. Are you willing to tear that wall down?

 (33:48)
No, there will not be another foot of wall constructed on my administration number one. Number two, what I’m going to focus on and the fact is that somebody in this group written a lot about the border. I’m going to make sure that we have border protection, but it’s going to be based on making sure that we use high-tech capacity to deal with it and at the ports of entry. That’s where all bad stuff is happening.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (34:16)
What about the land confiscations?

 (34:18)
End. End. Stop. Done. Over. Not going to do it. Withdraw the lawsuits. We’re out. We’re not going to confiscate the land.

Alfredo Corchado: (34:29)
Mr. Vice President, under the Trump administration, asylum has virtually ended. ICE detention centers are empty. Your new plan calls for reversing President Trump’s harsh plan, but won’t that restart a brand new border crisis? I mean, what would you do with all those people in camps now waiting in Mexico?

 (34:51)
It will if we don’t do it well, we don’t reach out to the charitable communities that will come in and help, and in addition to us spending millions of dollars providing for access, access for judges, access for asylum folks to be on the border to move quickly. Because if we just say, “Okay, all done. I’ve withdrawn the order.” You’re going to have a crisis on the other side of the border as well. And we shouldn’t be putting these people when they come across the border in jail. We should be doing monitoring. There’s ways to monitor without putting them in jail. Number one, but we have to make sure that we build up the infrastructure to be able to accommodate Trump’s cruel, inhumane border policies, ripping children from their mother’s arms and Trump’s migrant protection protocols, remain in Mexico program. I mean, all of this is going to take time, not a long time, but you have to be prepared so we don’t create another crisis as you pointed out.

Alfredo Corchado: (36:01)
Sorry. What are you trying [inaudible 00:36:01] the Department of Homeland Security? How do you hold it accountable?

 (36:08)
You hold it accountable by being president and acting accountable. I will have someone heading that department that listens to what we say. It’s outrageous what’s being done now. And by the way, ICE is going to go back to school. The idea that ICE is sitting outside of a mass on Sunday to arrest a parent coming out as undocumented, the idea that they’re going to schools, the idea they’re going to doctor’s appointments is wrong. This is about families. Families. And you have so many young children, so many young children under enormous pressure and psychological pressure, wondering whether or not they’re going to come home there’s going to be no one there. We need to do so much more. There’s a way. From my perspective, it’s all about families. We have to push humanitarian resources to make sure that we have public private partnerships to support people living in these conditions. We’ve got to surge resources for the asylum protectors. There’s so much we can do, but guess what-

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (37:12)
Are those asylum seekers?

 (37:12)
It’s going to cost a lot of money and I’ve been calling for it for a year and a half.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (37:16)
Are those asylum seekers that are on the other side of the border now in camps going to be allowed to come and do their claims inside the United States, something that has not been reported to them?

 (37:25)
There’s got to be an orderly process for that to occur as your colleague said. Otherwise, if I just say, “Tomorrow, everybody comes across the border.” This is the first time ever. You’ve had to seek asylum in a third country. It’s outrageous. It’s outrageous. It’s wrong.

Errol Barnett: (37:41)
Mr. Vice President, your opponent in this election, President Trump, has made your mental state a campaign topic. And when asked in June, if you’d been tested full cognitive decline, you’ve responded that you’re constantly tested in effect because you’re in situations like this on the campaign trail. But please clarify specifically, have you taken a cognitive test?

 (38:04)
No, I haven’t taken a test. Why the hell would I take a test? Come on man. That’s like saying, “Before you got in this program, if you take a test where you’re taking cocaine or not. What do you think? Huh? Are you a junky?”

Errol Barnett: (38:17)
What do you say to President Trump who brags about his test and makes you a message say an issue for voters?

 (38:27)
Well, if he can’t figure out the difference between an elephant and a lion, I don’t know what the hell he’s talking about. Did you watch that? Look, come on, man. I know you’re trying to goad me, but I mean, I’m so forward-looking to have an opportunity to sit with the President or stand with the President in debates. There going to be plenty of time. And by the way, as I joke with him… I shouldn’t say it. I’m going to say something I probably shouldn’t say. Anyway, I am very willing to let the American public judge my physical as well as my mental fitness and to make a judgment about who I am and what state of affairs I have, what kind of physical shape I’m in, what kind of mental shape I’m in.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (39:18)
Someone who is on your VP shortlist, Senator Kamala Harris, told NPR last year that the Justice Department would have “no choice, but to prosecute Trump after his presidency.” Should you win, would you follow through on the many investigations? Could you envision him, a former president, being prosecuted if the evidence shows wrongdoing?

 (39:43)
Look, the Justice Department is not the President’s law firm. The attorney general is not the President’s private lawyer. I will not interfere with the Justice Department’s judgment of whether or not they think they should pursue the prosecution of anyone that they think has violated the law-

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (40:04)
Including a former president?

 (40:06)
It depends on what happens. It depends on what happens. I think it is a very, very unusual thing and probably not very… How can I say it? Good for democracy to be talking about prosecuting former presidents.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (40:23)
Well, what has to happen? You say, depending on what happens. What has to happen? What is the bar to you to have to-

 (40:30)
I don’t know what some of these cases going on in the New York courts are. I don’t know the detail of those cases. And so if there’s a case underway that in fact has to be pursued and I believe it should be pursued and the attorney general thinks it is, that’s a very different thing. But in terms of saying, “I think the President violated the law. I think the President did this, therefore go and prosecute him.” I will not do that.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (40:55)
But if it shows that there was wrongdoing, you believe that a president could actually be prosecuted?

 (41:04)
I don’t think anyone’s above the law. And I love the way you’re trying to get me into this thing about lock them up. I’m not going there.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (41:14)
Well, there are right now a number of investigations. I mean, the Southern District of New York just said that their extensive and protracted criminal conduct at the Trump organization that they’re looking into. This isn’t speculative. This is something that’s actually happening.

 (41:29)
I said, those things that are underway, if they prove to be a criminal offense, then in fact that would be up to the attorney general to decide whether he or she want to proceed with it. I am not going to make that individual judgment. He’s not my lawyer or she’s not my lawyer.

Tia Mitchell: (41:53)
Mr. Vice President, I want to go back to voting rights. You talked a lot earlier about that you think there are some states that are engaging in voter suppression and my question-

Tia Mitchell: (42:03)
… some States that are engaging in voter suppression. And my question is if you were to become President, is there anything you’ve considered taking executive action in order to shore up voting systems or protect voting rights for American public without waiting for congressional approval or a bill to pass?

 (42:21)
Well, the answer is I’d do what Barack and I did in our administration, the Attorney General would go after, there are somewhere about 84, 85 attempts that have been made and I think it’s 31 States, don’t hold me to the exact number, to suppress voting, to make it harder to vote. And I would take those systems, and those I’d challenge in court, those attempts, those new attempts at Jim Crow. I would do that. I would have the Attorney General go out and make sure that we have, and the first thing I’m going to do in terms of the Justice Department, I was the guy who got the Voting Rights Act extended for 25 years. And along came the Shelby case and Shelby County in Alabama and the court came along and said, “There’s no longer a requirement that you have get pre-clearance because of the conduct in the past. So any change you wish to make an electoral process, you have to check through the courts.”

 (43:21)
They said that is old, but they can’t do that. We’re allowed to change. There’s no constitutional prohibition to change the provision in the law, I think it’s section four, I’m not positive, to change that provision to say they require pre-clearance under certain conditions, that requires a vote in the United States Congress that is now called, that is now the Lewis amendment to the Voting Rights Act. And that’s what I pushed very hard and I’ve been pushing it for a long time.

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (43:53)
We just want to get in just one question in the international sphere, President Trump is not the first President to say China is ripping off the United States. President Obama made similar complaints. Some have said Trump’s stance is a good one to counter China’s influence. Would you keep the tariffs?

 (44:13)
No. Hey look, who said Trump’s idea is a good one? Who said Trump’s idea is a good one?

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (44:19)
Some feel that-

 (44:20)
Some. Two or three people. Manufacturing has gone on recession. Agriculture lost billions of dollars that taxpayers had to pay. We’re going after China in the wrong way. China is stealing intellectual property. China’s conditioning being able to do business in China based on whether or not you have 51% Chinese ownership. That’s got to end. I spent a fair amount of time when I was Vice President with President Xi, because the President wanted me to get to know him. He’s no Democrat with a small D at all, but here’s the deal, he made it real clear, he-

Lulu Garcia-Navarro: (44:54)
So he scrapped those tariffs, what do you want in return? Or you’re just going to scrap them without any concessions?

 (45:00)
No, no, here’s the deal. The question is what is the appropriate behavior that they have to engage in international trade with us and they have to play by the international rules. And what we have done is we have disarmed ourselves. We make up 25% of the world’s economy, but we poked our finger in the eye of all of our allies out there. The way China will respond is when we gather the rest of the world that in fact invasion and open trade and making sure that we’re in a position that we deal with WHO the right way, in fact, that’s when things began to change. That’s when China’s behavior is going to change. For example, when I was last there, he said to me, Xi, that they set up an error identification zone that they had an international airspace that said that you had to check with China before you could fly through it.

 (45:59)
I said, “We’re not going to pay attention.” He said, “What do you want me to do? Take it down.” I said, “You should, but we’re not going to pay attention.” So we flew B-1 bomber through it. We’ve got to make it clear, the international rules of the road in terms of airspace, sea space, and the way in which you deal with the trade and equity that have to be imposed. And what we did in our administration, when they started dumping steel, we responded. They just overproduced and they just started dumping steel through the state owned entities. We responded and it stopped. They also did the same thing with tires. And so you respond under the rules, the international rules of trade and hold them to it. That’s what you do.

Errol Barnett: (46:42)
And just as we run out of time here, Mr. Vice-President, how would you confront China on the alleged human rights abuses, not just toward Hong Kong, but toward Uyghur Muslims, as well, beyond these newly announced Senate sanctions?

 (46:56)
You may recall, I was the first one to say, we should act and go to the United Nations with the Uyghurs. I believe the first one, period. We should be in the United Nations condemning China’s action. They’re concentration camps, they are concentration camps. And look what happened when he didn’t respond to what was going on in Hong Kong, it emboldened China does just to go ahead and break what had been an agreement they had made about the quasi independence of Hong Kong. Now it’s done. And so now we’re taking action relative to Hong Kong, but look, folks, you have to speak up. He’s walked away. He has no conception of human rights. The way he’s embraced dictators and thugs around the world. The way he’s failed to take on Putin in terms of what’s going on in Afghanistan, what’s going on in Ukraine, what’s going on in Eastern Europe.

 (47:50)
What’s going on. Look, this is a man who’s embraced all the wrong people, all the wrong people. And he treats NATO like it’s a protection racket. So I just think that this is we get to say, “China, these are the international rules of the road. You play by them, or we’re not playing.” Period. Now what we most have to do, excuse me. What’s most is we have invest in our own people. We used to invest nationally about two to 3% of our GDP in technology as a government. It’s now down to 0.3, if I’m not mistaken, could be 0.4%. What are we doing? What in God’s name are we doing? They’re going to own the 5G market, they’re making sure they’re focusing extensively on IT.

 (48:42)
And we are doing what? What are we doing? Trump continues to focus on all those industries that are obsolete in America. We should be investing in made in America and make sure that our workers can out compete anybody in the world, anybody in the world, but what are we doing? They’re not being trained. We’re not focused on it. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. Sir you had a question. I know we have to go and I have another event, but fire away.

Alfredo Corchado: (49:13)
I wanted to thank you for your time, Mr. Vice President. And wondering if you have any closing remarks for the membership of NABJ, NAFJ, people who are watching this interview right now?

 (49:26)
Well, first of all, I just want to thank especially want to thank President Tucker and Hugo, as he referred to the President for the leadership and inviting me to join you today. Look, I want to thank you for all the work you do by strengthening diversity in our press, strengthening quality and capacity of the press and is broadening our perspective and deepening our connection with each other. We need that more now than ever. We need people who know about it, especially at a time when black and Latino reporters have been targeted by this President for asking questions, honest questions, and condemn for standing strong and for doing their job. Look, America’s facing a confluence of crisis and immeasurable pain, but we’re also facing an incredible opportunity. It’s an opportunity to right a wrong that has festered since our founding fathers.

 (50:23)
The fact is black and Latino Americans have never been fully included in our democracy or our economy. And it’s a moral failure. It seeps into everything. I’ve said it already, in the course of this pandemic, black and Latinos Americans have been three times as likely to get infected and twice as likely to die. Black and Latino Americans are disproportionately out of work, facing evictions, losing hope. The communities are the first ones to get hit and the last ones to get any relief. We need overwhelming response to right that wrong. I’m proud of the sweeping plan I put together to build back better, including everyone in the deal. It’s long past time we deal with systemic racism in America and deliver black and Latino Americans their full share of the American dream. Every one of us has a role to play in that work.

 (51:15)
So I want to thank you for shining a light on all of this and the work you do, and the stories you communicate because you have great credibility in the people you communicate to, it matters a great deal. And folks, I know you may not agree, but I honest to God think we’ve been delivered to one of those inflection points in American history that hasn’t occurred since the ’30s, where the public has had the blinders taken off and they’ve looked around and said, “Oh my God, I didn’t realize it. I didn’t realize exactly what was going on here.” And you began to see it happening. I am convinced, and I’m also emboldened by the younger generation, the generation Z to the young millennials. They’re the best educated, the least prejudiced, the most open generation in American history. I think we’re ready.

 (52:10)
I’ll just say one last thing. When you have roughly 24 out of every 100 students in kindergarten through high school that speaks Spanish, how in God’s name does it make any sense for any other American to say there’s nothing we should do more than make sure they’re fully integrated, educated, and grow? They are the future. It’s the future of the country. It’s real. It’s not a joke. It’s real. And the idea we walk away makes no sense. And by the way, I make these talks and speeches, when we’re able to get out through the Chambers of Commerce to Republicans, I say, “Tell me how you don’t benefit when African Americans are better educated and have access to education, housing, and businesses? How are you not better off when Latino small business men and women profligate throughout the country? How are you not better off when they’re better educated?”

 (53:13)
People are beginning to figure it out, beginning to figure it out. And so I think we’ve been delivered this terrible time in our history, but it’s given us a great, great opportunity. I really honest to God believe the combination of COVID, the economic collapse, the situation we have with regard to racism in this country, and it’s been exposed by George Floyd and others what happened, and everybody now realizing science matters, and they’re beginning to focus on environment. We can provide millions of good paying jobs, grow the economy, even though I’m supposedly the liberal progressive guy, you got Wall Street people saying, “Hey, man, this can grow the economy.” We can generate economic growth. And once again, lead the world but we have to stop, we’ve always led the world, as I said, not by the example of our power, but the power of our example. And it’s messy, we’re being devastated all around the world. We can change that. I know how to do that. That’s what I’ve done my whole life. Thank you for taking the time and listening.


 (01:14)
Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Kingswood Community Center. Actually, that’s the one down I used to work as a joke. I didn’t know where you were. Anyway, it’s great to be here and back at a place where, I want to thank Wayne Jefferson for having us here at the Hicks Anderson Center. [inaudible 00:01:42] from Delaware, everybody knew who Hicks was. He was deeply involved in social justice issues and politics in the state for a long time and was really very much engaged back in the days when, after Dr. King Was assassinated and this city was in flames. And he was a good friend, a good friend. And I want to thank him for us. I used to work over the East side and I got to know Hicks very well because he did a lot of work over there as well.

 (02:19)
And you know, folks here at this center, as Wayne will tell you, doing God’s work. This community center gives people hope and a place to belong. I saw hope as a Senator, when, as I said, I watched my son, the Attorney General of Delaware, Beau Biden. He would attend mass at Sacred Heart, just up the street here. And then he’d walk here with his notebook in hand, pocket, sit around for the better part of the day and see if he could find ways to help and see what they may need or not need. And it was on the, as I said, the East side where I was a teenage lifeguard and my career as a public defender started. That’s why I got so involved with the community.

 (03:03)
And this center, as I said, is named after my buddy Hicks Anderson, he was everybody’s friend. Hicks and I went way, way back. Just walk around Wilmington and everyone, everyone has a story about Hicks. How he cared, how he always was there for you and how he built a wonderful family, including twin sons who gave back so much to this community and continue to do. They served in the United States army, and now they’re serving jointly as the Poet Laureates of the State of Delaware and Nnamdi is a state representative.

 (03:45)
And Hicks and his family, and everyone else at the center embodied the defining story of America. For generations, Americans who were Black, Brown, Native American, immigrant, have always been found, they pushed out, not fully included from our democracy and our economy. And it’s by pure courage, heart, and grit, they never gave up as they pursued the full promise of America. That’s the story of the people of this community and of this country. That’s why I couldn’t think of a more meaningful place to talk about my Build Back Better economic agenda. A bold, practical plan that’s going to help build a stronger and a more just and sustainable economy for everybody. Everybody, this time included.

 (04:40)
And it’s the story of two civil rights heroes we lost last week. One who showed us the way forward. Each of them, their separate ways. Reverend C. T. Vivian, who faced down drownings, beatings, and his comment was, “You can’t turn your back upon the idea of justice.” Enormous courage, and my friend, an American hero, Congressman John Lewis, who crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge one last time on Sunday, once said, “Freedom is not a state. It’s an act.” I went over the bridge twice, once with him and I thought I knew a lot about it. Until you walk that bridge, and some of you have done it, and you get to the crest of the bridge. The first time you can see down the other side. And I walked over with him a couple of years ago. I thought to myself, “What in God’s name did it take in terms of internal fortitude, courage to walk down there, seeing those folks with clubs and on horses, waiting at the bottom of the bridge with no way back.”

 (05:54)
I spoke to John just before he died. He was on his death bed and they said he could talk, he wanted to talk. Instead of answering my concerns for him, he asked about me. He asked about us. He asked that we stay focused on the work left undone to heal this nation. To remain undaunted by the public health crisis and the economic crisis, taking the blinders off in this crisis and showed the systemic racism for what it is, that plagues this nation. People have seen now, most people allowed them to shelter in place. All those folks risking their lives, stacking the shelves in the supermarkets, farming the food, getting it to our tables. All those folks, most of whom are Black and Brown.

 (06:49)
One thing the Senate and the President can do right away is pass the bill to restore the Voting Rights Act. Just yesterday, it was renamed in the Congress in memory of John Lewis. Back the effusive praise we heard since he passed, especially from many of our Republican friends. Back it with some action, protect that sacred right to vote that he was willing to die for. If they don’t, I’ve been saying all along, it’s one of the first things I’ll do as president if elected. We can’t let the fundamental right to vote be denied, especially in the middle, as this pandemic rages on. Nearly 150,000 dead from COVID-19 and counting. More than 4 million Americans have tested positive and counting. Black and Latinos are three times as likely to be infected and twice as likely to die from the virus as white people. More than 30 million and counting are collecting unemployment checks. Black unemployment is at 15%, Latino, 14.5. 40% of black owned businesses, 440,000 in total, have reported they had to shut down and everything is worsened by this crisis of presidential leadership.

 (08:24)
To change the tone over the last few days, as Trump has, doesn’t change the facts of the last four years. Donald Trump faces a real test, and he’s failed it. The basic threshold of being president, the duty to care for the entire country, not just as re-election prospects. He’s shown that he can’t beat the pandemic and keep you safe. He can’t turn the economy around and get America back to work. And he is horrifyingly and not surprisingly, intentionally stoking the flames of division and racism in this country. I said from the outset of the recent protests, that there’s no place for violence or destruction of property. Peaceful protesters should be protected and arsonists and anarchists should be prosecuted. And local law enforcement can do that. When President Obama and I were in office, we protected federal property. We were able to do it without the Department of Homeland Security turning into a private militia, and it can be done today, but that wouldn’t help trump’s political interest. He’s determined to stoke division and chaos. It’s not good for the country.

 (09:48)
Donald Trump doesn’t care. His campaign is failing and he’s looking for a political lifeline. This isn’t about law and order. It’s about a political strategy to revive a failing campaign. Every instinct Trump has is to add fuel to the fire. It’s the last thing, the last thing we need. We need leadership. We’ll calm the waters and lower the temperature. That’s how we restore peace in the streets. But this election is not just about voting against Donald Trump. It’s about rising through this moment of crisis. Understanding people’s struggles, and building future worthy of their courage and their ambition to overcome.

 (10:44)
Last month, I stopped at Bethel AME Church here in Wilmington, not far from here. I talked to a group of faith and local leaders. They shared their pain, their anger and the frustration at the state of affairs. State of affairs in our justice system, our healthcare system, our politics our economy. There’s just a sense, and it’s real, that the deck is stacked, stacked against the community. The common theme was, how do we break the cycle? In good times, communities of color still lag. In bad times, they get hit first and the hardest, and in recovery, they take the longest to bounce back. This is about justice. I proposed the criminal justice reform and policing reform agenda, and I’m committed to working with the Congress to see it through as president.

 (11:48)
It’s also about jobs, good paying jobs. Financial stability, building wealth for families of color and passing it down to their kids. It’s about economic growth for our country and out performing the rest of the world to stay ahead. It’s also about dignity, for working people in the middle class. Many of you heard me say it before, my dad had an expression. He said, “Joey a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community.” He’d end by saying, “It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, honey, it’s going to be okay, and mean it.” Over 50% of the people in America don’t think it’s going to be okay for their kids, that they’ll never meet the standard of living they had.

 (12:49)
Over the last few weeks, I’ve laid out my Build Back Better plan based on necessities, and on the idea, we can’t just build back to what it was before, we have to build back better. This time, bring everybody along. We need to make bold, practical investments to recover from the economic mess we’re in and to rebuild the economic future our country deserves. I’ve explained how these investments would be paid for. I’ve laid it out.

 (13:21)
Today, I’m here to explain how the Build Back Better plan will deal with systemic racism and advance racial equity in our economy. So far, the Build Back Better plan has had three parts I’ve spoken to. First, investing in American manufacturing and technology. So the future is made in America and it includes all Americans, not just the seven cities the vast majority of venture capital has gone to. Under my plan, we will mobilize the biggest investment in rebuilding our country since World War II, creating millions of good paying union jobs. It includes a historic investment in federal procurement, which is the way government purchases goods and services. Under my proposal, we’d make sure those goods and services are American made in American supply chains, like American steel for building, and energy efficient vehicles, and battery technology and so on.

 (14:32)
But for too long, federal contracting for this work has been inaccessible to too many Black and Brown entrepreneurs and businesses. They too often never get a fair shot to apply. My plan makes sure the contractors and subcontractors of color get a fair shot. We’re going to triple the existing federal goal for contracting small disadvantaged businesses from 5% to a minimum of 15% by 2025. We’ll create jobs and growth along the way. We can do that.

 (15:10)
The second plank in Build Back Better advances racial equity by mobilizing our infrastructure and taking on climate change with jobs. Take infrastructure for example. In too many underserved communities of color, the roads are falling apart. Street lights are out. Sidewalks are cracked. School buildings outdated and unsafe. Parks aren’t safe for the kids to play in or adults to exercise in. There’s nowhere you can go to buy fresh food for miles away. Air pollution causes childhood asthma that follows them through their adult life and affects their overall health condition. Abandoned homes crush property values, and diminish the quality of life in the neighborhood.

 (16:03)
… property values, and diminish the quality of life in the neighborhoods, they exist.

 (16:06)
But not withstanding these systematic barriers, look at the energy, pride and achievement of communities of color. Just imagine if we could truly unleash their full potential. My Build Back Better plan would make sure families and these communities are the ones who benefit from the hundreds of billions of dollars in federal investment, tax payer dollars that have already have to be invested by the administration in purchasing things.

 (16:38)
To rebuild roads, fill those cracks in the sidewalks, instill broadband, close the digital divide, create spaces to live and work and play safely where you can drink clean water, breathe clean air, and shop at a nearby grocery store with a fresh stock of healthy food. We can’t rebuild our economy and meet this climate crisis unless we create opportunities for people to build their own communities. This is about jobs. It’s also about dignity. It’s about pride. I’m confident we can do this.

 (17:20)
The third plank of my Build Back Better investment is in caregivers who take care of our loved ones and our kids. We truly want to reward the work in this country. We have to ease the financial burdens of care that families are carrying. We have to elevate the compassion, benefits and dignity of caregiver workers and early childhood educators.

 (17:49)
Families are squeezed emotionally and financially trying to raise their kids, care for their parents and loved ones, live with a disability. My guess is that some of you have been through that; the parent who’s ill and can’t take care of themself, you have to make the choice of going to work or staying home and take care of them because the cost is so incredible. Or young child under the age of five, figuring how you pay for it.

 (18:18)
I was a single parent for five years with a lot of help. And I had a good salary. I was making $42,000 a year… without my family I couldn’t have done it. They need help, but often they can’t afford it. And the professional caregivers out there, the home health workers, childcare workers, who are often women, women of color and immigrants, are too often underpaid, under seen, and undervalued.

 (18:46)
But these are the things we can do right now to ease the burden. My plan would clear the waiting list that exists now of 800,000 people who are eligible for home and community care for a loved one through Medicaid who signed up, but are waiting; 800,000.

 (19:12)
My plan would make sure every three and four year old child gets access to free high quality preschool like students have at this center, while I do with title one schools. And low and middle income families won’t spend more than 7% of their income on childcare for children under the age of five.

 (19:35)
The most hard-pressed working families won’t have to spend a dime because it will be free. My plan would pay and support our caregivers who overwhelmingly, as I said, are women of color. This plan to help workers, especially those without college degrees, gain new skills in good paying industries like healthcare, and provides a pathway to advance their careers.

 (20:00)
For example, a home healthcare worker under this plan will have access to training you need to become an EMT, or a nurse, or physician’s assistant. We won’t just putting millions of Americans to work in new care and early childhood education jobs, we’ll also free up millions more to rejoin the paid workforce. Studies indicate at least 2 million additional jobs will be created; more economic growth for our nation. And the economy as a whole will grow.

 (20:35)
We can do this. Today I’m laying out a fourth part of my Build Back Better plan advancing racial equity across the American economy, not just part of the other pillar of Build Back Better, but this is in its own right.

 (20:55)
To start we create a new small business opportunity fund. It dramatically expands on the successful Obama-Biden initiative that generated more than 5 billion and $5 in private equity for every $1 in public investment in a small business, particularly in hard-pressed areas. We’re going to take $30 billion of our Made in American Investment, I announced earlier this year, and put it into this fund. We’ll allow the expanded federal support for the most effective state, local, and nonprofit programs to provide venture capital and financing for minority business owners and communities in need.

 (21:35)
It will also allow us to support community development banks that have a proven record of investing in minority small businesses. That 30 billion is estimated to leverage 150 billion in new financing and equity for more black and brown small businesses. So our Small Business Opportunity Fund supports and investment in a small manufacturer of color seeking to commercialize a new technology for example. That helps the manufacturer get started. Then private investors, we know, notice the promise of that business and invest their private dollars as well. That helps manufacturers scale and grow. That’s how we’ll make sure that those are the best ideas are not denied the venture capital or financing they need because of race or zip code.

 (22:32)
And here’s why it matters. Right now we’re in the midst of one of the greatest threats to small businesses our country has ever seen. What Donald Trump doing about it? Well, he’s given big banks the green light to loan millions of dollars that they’re covered for by the federal government, and make millions of dollars in fees by favoring their most well-off and well-connected clients while shutting the door on smaller, black and brown business without these connections.

 (23:02)
You all remember, some of you covered when I first laid out what I thought needed to be done in the first recovery plan put forward by the Congress, I said, we should use, the president should use the authority he has under the Defense Production Act to force big banks to have to lend to small businesses. They’re guaranteed the loan. We bailed them out before, forced them to lend, but what did they do?

 (23:32)
“Do you have a credit card with us? Have you established credit with us? Do you have a bank account with us? Do you…” and the list goes on. And they’re denied. The result? Billions of dollars in COVID relief programs for small businesses benefit ones who had lawyers and accountants to help them better connect to businesses, jumped to the head of the line, and the big banks accommodated.

 (23:55)
Black and brown small businesses that needed the help most got shut out. In fact, just 12%, 12% of black and brown businesses surveyed seeking help, got the aid they asked for. Now half of them say they’re going to have to close up shop. And they’re a major source of employment in America. Our economy can’t afford for them to close; their families can’t afford for them to close. Under my plan 50% of emergency small business relief would be reserved for the smallest businesses of 50 or fewer employers.

 (24:35)
Right now we’re talking 500. They are small business compared to the Fortune 500, but do you think most people think the neighborhood stores have 500 employees are small business? Right down the main streets, so many small towns around America and big towns, and see them shuttered.

 (24:55)
This would help minority-owned business get lifesaving loans before the well-connected businesses jumped to the head of the line. And removing the barriers for black and brown entrepreneurs to start and grow businesses is only one of many things we have to do to close the racial wealth gap in this nation.

 (25:14)
Expanding black and brown home ownership is another. Today american cities, there are a number, where about 75% of white Americans own their homes, only 25% are black and brown citizens, or black citizens own their homes. Even in the middle class communities of color, the same homes that exist in the white community are often valued significantly less.

 (25:47)
Those black residents then see their wealth accumulate much more slowly. Many of you are from families like mine, middle class families. Where do we accumulate, where did my parents accumulate any ability to borrow and generate any wealth? In their home. That’s how it got built. That’s a lot of us were about to send our kids to school, borrow against that.

 (26:11)
When a house is an asset that helps build equity and wealth, the home ownership disparity denies equal opportunity. My housing plan is going to be a major contributor. From a $15,000 first time home buyer tax credit, which means they know once the deal is through they will get paid the down payment, expanding affordable housing… it’s reversing Trump’s efforts to gut fair housing enforcement. He’s now trying to scare the hell out of suburbs saying these rules that Biden and the president put through are going to be, they’re causing you to end up by implication of having those black neighbors next to you. That’s supposed to scare people.

 (27:04)
We’ll remove the barriers to home ownership that hold back too many Americans of color from a pathway to middle class. We’re also going to have to remove another piece of systemic barrier for too many black and brown Americans. What’s holding back too many people of color from finding a good job and starting a business is a criminal record and follows them every step of the way.

 (27:32)
Getting caught for smoking marijuana when you’re young, surely shouldn’t deny you the rest of your life being able to have a good paying job, or a career, or a loan, or the ability to rent an apartment. But right now that criminal record is the weight that holds back too many people of color, and many whites as well. The process to seal or expunge those records can be complicated and costly in the states where the records are kept; and life of a second chance passes by.

 (28:09)
Now some safeguards are necessary, but some do more harm than good. And the more and more states that recognize the significant costs to their economy when people with certain non-violent criminal records can’t fully contribute to their full talents and capacity. But even when the states want to give that person a second chance and seal or expunge a certain non-violent criminal record, the record keeping systems are so outdated they don’t know how to do it. It’s paper spread across different courthouses.

 (28:42)
Under my plan, if a state decides it wants to implement an automated system for the sealing and expungement of certain non-violent criminal records, if the state chooses to do that, the federal government will help put together the process and allow them the money to be able to know how to organize to do that; organize their system. That’s what racial equity in our economy looks like.

 (29:08)
Here’s another step we’re going to take under my Build Back Better plan to fully include more people into the deal. We’re going to strengthen the Federal Reserves’ focus on racial economic equity. The Fed has a profound impact on our economy. Most people wouldn’t even think the Fed has anything to do with this. It’s existing mandate promotes maximum employment, and stable prices. Under my plan, I believe the Fed should add to that responsibility, and aggressively target persistent racial gaps in jobs, wages, and wealth, revise its hiring and employment practices and achieve greater diversity at all levels of that institution, including diverse nominees for the board of governors, and the regional federal banks.

 (29:59)
So when the chairman of the Federal Reserve provides report on the health of our economy, we’ll know if the economy is helping everybody. That’s when racial equity is not just an aspiration, but a theory of change, how to build our economic future to include everyone, include all those remarkable people out there doing extraordinary things given just half a chance.

 (30:27)
I met a couple, they’re in here somewhere. [ Markivas 00:14:32], where are you? See that young man right there? I hope I’m not embarrassing you, and his lovely wife. Markivas, who I just met backstage, his mom and dad never went to college, and he was 12 when someone handed him an old laptop computer. He took it apart, put it back together. It changed his life. At 17, he got certified to become an IT system specialist.

 (31:03)
He went to college, studied abroad, came back home, seeing the digital divide in his community, and he started a business getting computers to folks. He’s now 22, married with a little baby, and expecting another. And he has seven employees. His goal is to teach people how to repair and recycle computers and create a workforce development program to get them trained for good paying IT jobs.

 (31:33)
Pretty incredible. He’s incredible. Some of the people he helped only had eighth grade educations, never used a computer before… five weeks later they know how. Some are now earning $15 an hour for their first job, and for the first time. They’re incredible. He wants to scale up this business, and continue the reinvesting in his community. That’s pure courage-

 (32:03)
… in his community. That’s pure courage, heart and gut. He never gives up the pursuit of the full promise of America. That’s who we are. That’s what this election is all about. We are America. We don’t settle. We aspire and we succeed. I’ll be happy to take your questions. Let me get my list here. Okay. Jessica.

Jessica: (32:42)
Mr. Vice President, I want to talk a little bit about your VP pick. We’re narrowing in on the timeframe that you had identified as when you would make your announcement. Are you still targeting early August? And how many of these people, how many finalists do you have? And are you going to be able to meet with them in person because of COVID?

 (33:00)
I’m going to try to figure out how to trick you all so I can meet with them in person. You got crews outside my house. I don’t think it mattered. What I said was that I’m going to have a choice in the first week in August, and I promise I’ll let you know when I do.

Jessica: (33:24)
[inaudible 00:33:24] person do you think?

 (33:24)
What was that?

Jessica: (33:26)
Will you be able to meet with them face to face?

 (33:27)
We’ll see.

Jessica: (33:30)
You’re going to have to wear masks.

 (33:31)
We would have to wear a masks.

Jessica: (33:33)
Will you get tested do you think if you have to do that, for COVID?

 (33:38)
I’m not prepared to say much more.

Jessica: (33:40)
Okay.

 (33:41)
Thank you. All right. I’m supposed to call and people, right? Okay. Mary Bruce, ABC.

Mary Bruce: (33:49)
Vice President, this pandemic is taking a terrible toll on American lives and also the economy, but are there specific states right now that you think should hold their reopenings and roll things back? And if so, which states?

 (34:08)
Well, I’m not going to comment at every state, but any state where the rate is more than one to one here should be in fact rolling back. Look, from the beginning of my view, the President has given us a false choice. He said that we have to get back to work and also deal with COVID. You can’t get this country going again unless you get COVID under control. And so he has been really late in the game to getting around himself wearing a mask, for example. We waited for he, as you’ve heard it a hundred times, the Columbia Studies showing that if he’d acted just one week earlier, it would be, I think it was 37,000, wasn’t it? 31,000 more people alive. Two weeks earlier, 57,000 or whatever.

 (35:05)
The point is that there’s no clear message. There’s a federal responsibility to lay out really clear guidelines. It’s like opening up our schools. What’s happening now is there’s a national … We need the CDC. They had very strict guidelines they were going to do at first. They’ve watered those down in my view, what I’ve seen. Was talking to the docs that I deal with about three times a week and give me an hour and a half an hour and 50 minute brief. And so I think that what’s happening now is even in the States where it’s about freedom, freedom versus physical safety of your neighbor and communication of the virus, even in those states, they’re now locking down. And they’re locking down counties which have high returns on testing.

 (35:55)
The president says his answer was we’ll stop testing so we’re not going to know. Okay? We don’t know who has the virus. I think it’s really important. And here it takes me into what the next stage of this is. As you know, I know you’ve covered this a lot, I called a long time ago, meaning several months, that we should be putting together right now, and we should be providing about $25 billion to do it, to make sure that we have a detailed plan once a vaccine is in fact found, God willing sooner than later, to be able to be distributed to all America and anything beyond that. And it’s really a difficult logistical thing to do. Where is the planning to do that? We said the same thing about testing and tracing. We still don’t have enough tests. We still don’t have the capacity to trace.

 (36:49)
And so really, really I pray the president in fact takes advantage of a prospect of getting a vaccine just before, just after the first of the year, so we’re able to distribute it and do it in a way that deals with every part of America. But there’s been no planning that I can see.

Mary Bruce: (37:12)
And to be clear, have you been tested yet?

 (37:14)
No, I have not.

Mary Bruce: (37:16)
Thank you.

 (37:17)
Thank you. All right. Greg Anderson, Delaware State News.

Greg Anderson: (37:37)
You’ve had these meetings in Delaware the last three weeks. I’m just curious why Delaware, to be here, making these announcements.

 (37:46)
I’m home. This is my home and making this announcement in terms of whether I did this announcement in Seattle, Washington, or in New Mexico wouldn’t matter. It gets the same coverage, no matter where it is. And it was just a lot easier to be able to communicate with staff, work with staff that’s in Philadelphia and the like to get this all lined up. And what I found is operating out of home, all this stuff about hiding in the basement, well, over 340 million people have watched what we’ve done like this on television. That’s as big as the American population. So I’m learning that the way people are viewing the news and absorbing the news these days is totally different than it was before. So I find it really doesn’t make a whole lot of difference where you do it from as long as we can do it safely.

 (38:46)
And secondly, the reason I wanted to do this is because of Hicks Anderson. I can think of no more … If I were in Washington at the time, I’d come here for dealing with this issue because of my buddy, Hicks, and what has been done and what he was all about. It’s a Delaware thing, as you probably know.

Greg Anderson: (39:06)
Thank you.

 (39:12)
Thank you. Okay, Mike.

Mike: (39:15)
Thank you, sir. You just said that you believe that the president is intentionally provoking some of these violent clashes we’re seeing, particularly in Portland. But as you might know-

 (39:30)
Can you turn your mic down a little bit so I can hear you better?

Mike: (39:32)
I’m sorry. Helps to be a little taller, I suppose.

 (39:34)
No, no, I didn’t mean that.

Mike: (39:37)
You just said that you believe the president is intentionally provoking some of the violence we’ve seen in these clashes in Portland specifically. But as you might know, the president in his tweets and his campaign and the television ads they’re running is warning that if you’re president, we would see similar scenes throughout the country. I wonder how you would respond to that. And if you were president right now, what specifically would you be doing to strike the balance between the right to peaceably assemble, but mitigating the kinds of violence and the damage to public property that we’re seeing?

 (40:05)
I’d be using local police as we did when we were in office. When there were riots and there were federal property at stake, we were able to take care of that. We were able to take care of it by the use of, wasn’t as wide as this obviously, the use of local police. And the fact is that arsonists should be held accountable. People carrying guns shooting should be held accountable. People who engage in criminal activity should and must be held accountable and taken to trial.

 (40:34)
But what’s happened here is this has just caused such enormous political division. And it’s all about being able to … You say some of the ads. You see cities burning, call 911 and they have my picture in the background. If it’s a rape, dial one, if it’s anything else, it’s going to take seven days. I mean, come on. That is all about trying to come up with a bizarre law and order 2020 campaign thing, just try to scare the devil out of the American people. And what’s happened is it has …

 (41:10)
Look, Mike, when the president decided he had to walk across from the White House through a group of peaceful demonstrators to an Episcopal church to hold a Bible upside down, which I don’t know how often he reads, and he used the military to do that, did you ever think you’d see a chairman of the joint chiefs of staff apologizing to the nation for participating in that? Did you ever think you’d see four former chiefs of staff talk about how everything’s about dividing the country? That wasn’t about being able to walk across and hold up the Bible. That wasn’t about the church burning or being burned. It was about, as his own people said, his own commander, it was about dividing the country. [inaudible 00:10:10].

 (42:08)
When you have a president who, in almost the same day the state of Mississippi takes the Confederate flag off of their flag and he’s defending the Confederate flag, “It’s just a matter of heritage. And why isn’t it still being flown” or something to that effect at NASCAR and why things are down, this is about division. This is about trying to split the country. And so far, thank God, the American people aren’t having any of it. Over 70% of the people in the country thinking the protesters that … Did you ever think you’d see 77% of the people saying Black Lives Matter? Because they see what happens and they’re not buying onto this racial division. That’s what he’s done from the very beginning. As you’ve heard me say, coming down an escalator the day announcing, says “We’re going to get rid of those Mexican rapists and judges.” I mean, this is … So Mike, I don’t think you needed that, but I think we do need to hold those who violate the law accountable. You should never let what’s done in a march for equal rights overcome what the reason for the march is. And that’s what these folks are doing. And they should be arrested, found, arrested, and tried.

Mike: (43:41)
Sir, if I can. You finished the rollout of your economic plan. During the course of the primaries, you were critical of some of your Democratic opponents for putting forward plans that you felt were too expensive and not realistic in terms of getting past. You’re now proposing nearly $3 trillion as part of this and spending as part of this economic plan. Can you describe your evolution in terms of what you view as achievable if you’re elected and sworn in as president?

 (44:07)
I think there’s a big difference between saying, figuratively speaking, no one can be a millionaire, that’s a bad thing, saying that we are going to provide a medical plan that costs $30 trillion or $32 trillion, and being able to think you can get it passed and being able to pass, in this environment, legislation that the circumstances have demonstrated is needed to solve real problems. For example, the idea that we can continue to be in a circumstance where we reward companies for government contractors who are going overseas to make their products, that we can continue to provide tax breaks for that effort. When we find we come up short with everything from reagents or nasal swabs to not being able to provide for the kinds of steel we need to do certain things in American ships and the like is totally different than that.

 (45:18)
What we’re talking about is using federal dollars that have already been appropriated to focus them on building things that make us and increase our independence so we don’t have to rely on anyone else for whether it’s cyber security and cyber information or whether or not it is steel to make the banisters on our destroyers. We in fact should be able to do that, those things that are necessary and we have the capacity to do at home, do them at home. It’s not industrial planning. It’s the things that only the United States government can do.

 (46:04)
For example, the same thing with regards to my whole plan relative to the environment. We in fact can, are the only outfit … Companies aren’t going to come along and go spend a trillion dollars on infrastructure, rebuild highways, bridges that are causing people to die when they collapse and they’re still unsafe, making sure ports are accessible and ships can get in and out and unload their cargo. The government does that.

 (46:32)
And when the government does that, the government should be in fact insisting that, using that taxpayer dollars, we are buying the product from an American manufacturer made in America. Employing American workers, getting a decent wage. And that’s not industrial policy, it’s the things the government does anyway. It’s like you’ve heard me say before, the President of the United States, when I’m president, I’m going to inherit the largest auto and truck fleet in the world owned by the taxpayers. Well, what do you think we should do? What I think we should be doing is making sure we end up owning the electrical vehicle market. So what I’m going to do is move to make sure all those vehicles become carbon neutral, building 550,000 charging stations up and down federally built highways and controlled highways, generating the kind of growth, union wages that can provide good jobs for people and bring everybody along.

 (47:37)
So it is very different than saying we’re going to go out and find another $38 trillion and get that passed in a Congress where you didn’t have the support to get it. I predict you’ll find that I get significant support, particularly if I think is going to happen. I think we’re going to take back the United States Senate. And again, we’re just spending the dollars that are already appropriated-

 (48:03)
And again, we’re just spending the dollars that are already appropriated in many cases and how we spend them.

Speaker 1: (48:06)
Thank you, sir.

 (48:11)
Okay. Ed O’Keeffe, CBS.

Ed O’Keefe: (48:20)
Thank you, sir. I’ll take this off. You alluded to this in your remarks and I bring it up because polling is bearing this out a little bit, but are you running against president Trump or for president and for Joe Biden? In other words, you alluded to this, but a lot of voters seem to think or are saying that their support hinges on the fact that you’re not the president. So why perhaps should they be voting for you and not just against the president?

 (48:51)
That’s why I’m laying out these detailed plans. Look, I’m running because Trump is the president. And I think our democracy is at stake for real. And what seems to be the case is many Americans, those who don’t like me and those who do, view me as the antithesis of Trump. And I believe that I am. And when I announced, I said I was running because I thought it was essential to restore basic decency, the soul of America. But I really meant it.

 (49:37)
Remember I got criticized early on for saying that. Now everybody’s talking about the soul of America, decency, honor, respect. The second reason I said I was running is because even back when people were talking about how well the economy was moving, I thought the middle class was still getting crushed and working class folks were hurting badly. All this talk about how happy they were. I didn’t see any numbers showing they were so happy because people were getting paid badly. Corporate america was overreaching in terms of who they felt they had an obligation to deal with at all.

 (50:16)
And thirdly, the thing I got most criticized for and understandably, was I said, “We have to unite America.” And they said, “Well, that’s just a pipe dream. You used to be able to do that, Joe, but everything’s changed.” Well, if we can’t unite America, we’re gone. We’re dead. Democracy is dead. It requires consensus. That’s not hyperbole. It requires consensus. And that’s why I used to be sometimes critical when people [inaudible 00:50:44] they say, “I’m going to by executive order due to the following.” Well, that’s Trump. He doesn’t have the authority to do half of what he’s doing by executive order. That is not democracy.

 (50:56)
And so what I hope the good news, I think is the bad news based on all the million polls have been done by your network and everybody else, is the good news is the bad news. People know me, they know me warts and all. And the reason why I’m running is because I think I have two qualities at this moment, that aren’t always the most relevant qualities needed in the president. It changes, every election is different.

 (51:29)
One is that I know a fair amount about American foreign policy. And I have relations all over the world and those who don’t like me, respect me. And those that do like me, respect me. I know how to get things done internationally. It doesn’t mean I can solve the problem, but I understand the national security and intelligence issues. That’s what I’ve done my whole life.

 (51:53)
Trump has no notion of it. None. Thank of how he talks about Putin. My God. And he talks to him privately and says he’s not going to tell you whether he raised the fact that Putin’s paying the Taliban, number one. Number two, I have been relatively good at bringing people together in the United States Congress and politically. It’s going to be a lot harder. Things have changed, a lot harder. But depending on the outcome of the election, in terms of the Senate, how its race is, it could become very much within reach because I’ll say it again, I’ve never crushed any other’s motive. I’ve never lied to a political opponent, misled them. Even when I was in the Senate and I’d say, “I need your vote in this, but I got to tell you, you vote for it, this party or constituent is going to be mad at you.

 (52:49)
I’ve never misled anybody. I don’t expect anybody to voluntarily agree to be in the second edition of Profiles of Courage. I try to recognize the limits of where they can go and still find a principle compromise. And so they are the two things that I think we very bad badly need now. And lastly, I think that not withstanding the fact, I think I have laid out the most detailed plans on the economy and on issues related to healthcare and the rest of any president in modern history. I mean, it’s awful detailed.

 (53:28)
If I’m elected and this passes, I’m going to be good to go down as the most progressive presidents in America industry. But none of the things I’m talking about are inconsistent with a free market, not inconsistent with capitalism, but they require certain safeguards. Just like that whole thing, it took a capitalist to save capitalism. Well, I think there’s a lot that we can get done and will get done.

 (54:00)
And that’s why last thing I’ll say, remember I was criticized by saying, I’m going to campaign in states for senators and house members where states that I’m not likely to be able to win because what everything shows and you know this inside out and backwards, all of you do, that when the national party doesn’t invest in areas where there is a tight race, it hurts the local officials up and down the list. And so this is, we got to build a bench here and that’s what this is about as well. So I’m hoping that people will take a look at what I’ve done, what I’m proposing, why it’s in their interest, that they move in the direction I’m suggesting. And I think that is what we’re seeing some response to.

Ed O’Keefe: (54:51)
I have a quick COVID question in this regard, the Florida Marlins today announced they had to suspend their season. You curious, because I know you get briefings on how COVID should be dealt with and how society should be comporting itself in the midst of all this, what do you make of how sports leagues are starting to play again? And frankly, for that matter, what do you make of how schools are considering all this? The President is considering or has said he would withhold federal funding from states or school districts that don’t reopen. I mean, you must have thoughts on all this.

 (55:27)
I do. In the interest of time, I’ve laid out, we’ll get you a copy of my school reopening plan, what I think is required in order to do that. There’s some circumstances you can do that, but you have to make significant investments to do that, in order to provide for protective gear, in order to provide for social distancing, in order to have testing and tracing and all those things. It’s possible, but it’s a significant investment. And it requires the certainty that teachers, as well as students, are going to be protected. And where you’re in a high intensity area, where there’s a lot of COVID, it is not a good idea. Evidence, the fact that, rhetorical question, I’m not expecting you to answer it. Do you think the president all of a sudden decided not to go to Tallahassee because he no longer, he thought it was the interest of the public? I mean Jacksonville, Florida. I’m thinking of the capitol. If you go to Florida, it’s in Jacksonville.

 (56:27)
Well, because even the Republicans down there said, “We don’t want you doing this. We don’t want you to doing this.” It’s a mistake. And so I think that there are guidelines that have to be made much more specific by the CDC. They should let the scientists speak. Let the scientists speak. I’m happy the president is back holding his conferences on COVID every day. I don’t know what the hell he’s adding to it, except it’s good he’s wearing a mask and saying the right things, mostly.

 (57:08)
But this is about science. This is about science. This is about expertise. This is about transparency. And we’ve got to make it available to the American people because what everybody is finding out, and I’ll end with this Ed, is that the circumstance is such that even when the businesses opened, people aren’t showing up because they don’t think it’s safe in [inaudible 00:57:41]

 (57:40)
And so there ought to be a system whereby and which I proposed, is that you can lay out the details of what you’re doing in your business and be able to put a sign out that says it’s safe, I’ve met all the standards. But the idea that we’re just going to say open up and people are going to show up. They’re not. They’re not.

Ed O’Keefe: (58:05)
Should there be sports right now though? Should major league baseball go on, the NFL too?

 (58:09)
Well, it seem to me, that it’s probably not going to be what happened based on what the leagues themselves are saying. I mean, you have the Marlins saying, “We can’t do it,” so many people. So I think they should just follow the science. The one thing that seems to work a little bit, I don’t know, is basketball, where no one’s traveling. They’re all sequestered in one place. It’s like, look, all of you have families, moms, dads, et cetera. If they come from another state, you go from wherever you are to their state, well you should be quarantining before you go see them, up to 12 days. Think about it.

 (58:56)
The United States of America, you can’t travel to a whole hell of a lot of European countries. You can’t get in a plane and go there. Don’t come. You’re a danger to us. It’s because we’re not following the science. And there’s very little transparency on what’s going on. But I have confidence at the end of the day … When you have a lot of football players turning down eight, 10 million bucks a year and say, “I’m not going to take the risk of playing,” You got to listen, you got to listen. So I’m not going to apply it on every sport. But it seems to me that when you have to travel, when you have to be in hotel rooms or places that are different than you’ve been the day before, when you are in a position where you’re going into an area where there is a high concentration of the spread of COVID, all those things add up to a real problem. And we’re not going to really overcome that until we follow science and get a vaccine.

 (01:00:04)
But I want to say it again, I’m going to keep saying it. The president, as we speak, should be starting and should have started three months ago to put someone in charge of how specifically, like waging a war. How are you going to distribute the vaccine when it arrives, when it arrives, when it’s there? And the question of whether it’s real, when it’s there, that requires enormous transparency. You got to make all of it available to other experts across the nation, so they can look and see. So there’s consensus, this is a safe vaccine. Because already you have, what percent is American people saying if the vaccine were there tomorrow, they wouldn’t take it? And it’s not the usual anti-vaccine crowd it’s beyond that because people are losing faith in what the president says. Think about it.

 (01:01:05)
The words of a president matter significantly. They can, as I said before, take us to war. They can bring peace. They can rise up and cause the market to rise, they can do good things, but people listen to what a president says. And if a president repeatedly says things to you that are not true and then comes the time when they say I have something that I think can cure you, but it could really hurt you. You’re not going to listen to the guy who’s been lying you along the way. Anyway, thank you so much. Appreciate the time and I’m getting out of your hair. Thank you.



 (00:46)
Good afternoon. I’m here today to talk about infrastructure, and jobs, and our clean energy future. But I have to start by speaking about what millions of Americans know when they wake up every morning with worry, anxiety and fear. We’re still a country in crisis. The pandemic has affected more than three million Americans. It has cost more than 135,000 lives and climbing. And it shows no signs of slowing down. In just the last few days, 19 states, 19 states reported record cases, including Florida, which saw more than 15,000 new cases in a single day. Hospitalizations and deaths, two of the most concerning indicators of Trump’s failed response, are already unacceptably high. And they are rising.

 (01:47)
It’s gotten bad enough that even Donald Trump finally decided to wear a mask in public. I’m glad he made the shift. But, Mr. President, it’s not enough. We won’t be able to turn the corner and get American people back to work safely without presidential leadership. Mr. President, open everything now isn’t a strategy for success. It’s barely a slogan. Quit pushing the false choice between protecting our health and protecting our economy. All it does is endanger our recovery on both fronts.

 (02:30)
Mr. President, please listen to your public health experts instead of denigrating them. Do your job, Mr. President. Because, if we can’t deal with the public health crisis, we can’t deal with the economic crisis or deal with almost 18 million Americans who are out of work and the incredible pain inflicted on small businesses and communities of color. We can’t deal with the climate crisis that could cast us into an even darker and more permanent shadow that would loom over the country in the world for a long time. We won’t be able to do what Americans have always done, come back stronger than ever before with the grit, toughness, and resilience that characterizes who we are. That’s what I want to talk about today.

 (03:28)
Last week I shared the outlines in my plan to build back better, a bold plan to build an economy of the future, not an economy of the past. And the first plank of that plan rejects the defeatist view that automation and globalization mean we can’t ensure our future is made in America with American, good paying union jobs, here at home, making it in America. We clearly can.

 (04:04)
Today, I’m here at Wilmington to talk about a second plank, how we could create millions of high paying union jobs by building a modern infrastructure and a clean energy future. These are the most critical investments we can make for the longterm health and vitality of both the American economy and the physical health and safety of the American people. Even if we weren’t facing a pandemic and an economic crisis, we should be making these investments anyway. One in five miles of our highways are still in “poor condition” according to the American Engineers. Ten thousands… actually, tens of thousands of bridges are in disrepair, and some on the verge of collapse, presenting a clear and present danger to people’s lives. Tens of millions of Americans lack access to high speed broadband. To get our people to work and our kids at school safely, to get our kids to market swiftly, to power clean energy revolution in this country, we need to modernize America’s infrastructure.

 (05:16)
Despite this overwhelming need, this president and the Republican Congress has simply failed to act. There’s no other way of saying it, to continue to break the promises they’ve made to the American people. Donald Trump promised a big infrastructure bill when he ran in 2016. He promised it again in 2017, and then in 2018, and again in 2019. And now, he’s promising one again. It seems like every few weeks, when he needs a distraction from the latest charges of corruption in his staff or the conviction of high ranking members of his administration and political apparatus, the White House announces “it’s infrastructure week.” How many times you’ve heard him say that? But he’s never delivered. He’s never really even tried.

 (06:18)
Well, I know how to get it done. In 2009, President Obama and I inherited an economy in free fall. And we prevented another great depression. We enact the largest infrastructure plan since President Eisenhower’s interstate highway system, not only creating good paying jobs, but improving the safety and security of people on our roads. We made the largest investment in clean energy in the history of the United States of America, 90 billion dollars. And it put us on a path toward a thriving, clean energy economy, powering new economic growth and reducing energy costs. Here we are now with an economy in crisis, but with an incredible opportunity, not just to build back to where we were before, but better, stronger, more resilient, and more prepared for the challenges that lie ahead.

 (07:22)
And there’s no more consequential challenge that we must meet in the next decade than the onrushing climate crisis. Left unchecked, it is literally an existential threat to the health of our planet and to our very survival. That’s not up for dispute, Mr. President.

 (07:44)
When Donald Trump thinks about climate change, the only word he can muster is hoax. When I think about climate change, the word I think of is jobs, good paying union jobs that will put Americans to work, making the air cleaner for our kids to breathe, restoring our crumbling roads, and bridges, and ports, making it faster, cheaper, and cleaner to transport American made goods all across the country and around the world. Jobs. Jobs to build and install a network of 500,000 charging stations along our existing and new highways we built across this country. Which, not only will it help America and the American automobile industry, leading the world of manufacturing with electric vehicles, it will also save Americans billions of dollars over time in the cost of gasoline for their vehicles. Jobs that lay the lines for the second great railroad revolution, which will not only slash pollution, will slash commute times and open up investment in areas connected to metropolitan centers for the first time.

 (09:01)
When Donald Trump thinks about renewable energy, he sees windmills somehow causing cancer. When I think about these windmills, I see American manufacturing, American workers racing to dominate the global market. I see the steel that will be needed for those windmill platforms, towers, and ladders that can be made in small manufacturers like the McGregor Industries. I was up in Scranton last week. I see the union train and certified men and women who will manufacture and install it all. I see the ports that will come back to life, the longshoreman, the shipbuilders, the communities they support. When Donald Trump talks about improving efficiency by retrofitting lighting systems with LED bulbs, you remember what he said? He said he doesn’t like LED because, “the light is no good. I always look orange.” The lights no good. I always look orange.

 (10:10)
When I think about energy retrofitting for lighting, I see the incredible projects, like the one right here in the Chase Center. I see small businesses like Preferred Electric that design and install award-winning energy conservation measures, reduce consumption of electricity, and save businesses hundreds of thousands of dollars in energy costs per year. I see master electricians and union workers who work through a union apprenticeships who start off with good wages and quality benefits that only grow from there. These investments are a win, win, win for this country, creating jobs, cutting energy costs, protecting our climate.

 (10:53)
That’s why today I’m releasing my plan to mobilize millions of jobs by building sustainable infrastructure and an equitable clean energy future. In my first four years, we’re going to give four million buildings all across this country the same energy makeover that you get here at Chase, the Chase Center. It’s going to create at least one million jobs in construction, engineering, and manufacturing in order to get it done. It’s going to make places, the places where we work, we live, we learn healthier, improving indoor air quality and water quality. That’s going to save tens of billions of dollars in energy costs over time. That’s all real.

 (11:44)
We’re not just going to focus on commercial spaces though. We’re going to give direct support to help families do the same thing for their homes. We’re going to offer cash rebates and low cost financing to upgrade energy inefficient appliances and windows, improvements that will cut their monthly energy bills and, over time, save them thousands of dollars a year. We’re going to make a major investment to build 1.5 million new energy efficient homes. And public housing units will benefit from all the communities three times over by alleviating the affordable housing crisis, by increasing energy efficiency, and by reducing the racial wealth gap linked to home ownership.

 (12:32)
Last week, I talked about using the purchasing power of the federal government to reinvigorate domestic manufacturing. That’s what we’re going to do with the American automobile industry as well. The United States owns and maintains an enormous fleet of vehicles. And we’re going to convert these government fleets to electric vehicles made and sourced right here in the United States of America with the government providing the demand and the grants to retool factories that are struggling to compete. The U.S. auto industry and its deep banks of suppliers will step up, expanding capacity so the United States, not China leads the world in clean vehicle production.

 (13:25)
We’re going to make it easier for American consumers to switch to electric vehicles as well, not only by building 500,000 charging stations, but by offering rebates and incentives to swap older fuel efficient vehicles for new clean made in America vehicles, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil on an annual basis. Together, this will mean one million new good paying jobs in the automobile industry and supply chain and the associated infrastructure needed to get it done.

 (14:05)
We also know that transforming the American electrical sector to produce power without producing carbon pollution and electrifying an increased share of our economy will be the greatest spurring of job creation and economic competitiveness in the 21st century. That’s why we’re going to achieve a carbon pollution free electric sector by the year 2035. We need to get to work on it right away. We’ll need the scientists at the National Labs, the land-grant universities, HBCUs to improve and innovate technologies needed to generate, store, and transmit this clean energy. We need the engineers to design them, the workers to manufacturer. We need ironworkers and welders to install them. We’ll become the world’s largest exporter of these technologies, creating even more jobs.

 (15:01)
We know how to do this. Our administration rescued the auto industry and helped it retool, made solar energy the same cost as traditional energy, weatherized more than a million homes. And we’ll do it again, but this time bigger, and faster, and smarter.

 (15:20)
And, as we do this work, we need to be mindful of the historical wrongs and the damage that American industries have done in the 20th century, inflicting environmental harm on the poor and vulnerable communities, so often black, and brown, and Native American communities. Polluted air, polluted water, toxins raining down from communities that bore the environmental and health burdens but shared none of the profits. Growing up breathing that in everyday, it’s poison. And it’s partly why there’s such incredible rates of childhood asthma in black and brown communities, why black Americans are almost three times more likely to die of asthma related causes than white Americans. It’s cancer alley in St. James Parish of Louisiana. It’s the cancer causing clusters along Route 9 right here in Delaware. And that’s why today I’m also releasing a State of the Environment justice policies that build on my existing plan.

 (16:30)
This is an area of incredible opportunity for economic growth for our country. But we have to make sure that the first people who benefit from this are the people who were most basically hurt by it historically in the last century by the structural disparities that exist. I’m setting a goal to make sure that these frontline and fence line communities, whether they’re in rural places or in center cities, receive 40% of the benefit from the investments we’re making in housing, and pollution reduction, in workforce development, in transportation across the board.

 (17:10)
We’re also going to create jobs for people by cleaning up the environmental hazards that have now been abandoned. You saw the front page of the Times two days ago. All these places that are going bankrupt, except for the benefit that’s going, millions and millions of dollars, to the CEO’s. More than a quarter million jobs right away to do things like plugging millions of abandoned oil and gas wells that exist all across the country, posing daily threats to the health and safety of our communities. We’re going to hold accountable those CEO’s and corporations that benefit from decades of subsidies, then just walked away from their responsibilities to these communities, leaving the wells to leak, pollutants to continue to spew, greenhouse gases flowing into the air and the water. We’re not only going to repeal those subsidies. We’re going to go after those golden parachutes the CEO’s gave themselves before declaring bankruptcy to make sure that workers receive the benefits and retirement they were promised.

 (18:22)
Let’s create new markets for our family farmers and our ranchers, a new modern day civilian climate corp to heal our public lands, to make us less vulnerable to wildfires and floods. Look, these aren’t pie in the sky dreams. These are actionable policies that we can get to work on right away. We can live up to our responsibilities, meet the challenges of a world at risk of a climate catastrophe, build more climate resilient communities, put millions of skilled workers on the job, and make life markedly better and safer for the American people all at once and benefit the world in the process.

 (19:09)
The alternative, continue to ignore the facts, deny reality, focus only on technology of the last century instead of inventing the technology that will define this century. It’s just plain un-American not to. This is all that Donald Trump and the Republicans offer, backward looking policies that will harm the environment, make communities less healthy, hold back economic promise, while other countries race ahead. It’s a mindset that doesn’t have any faith in the capacity of the American people to compete, to innovate, and to win. It’s never been a good bet to bet against the American people. And, when you do, it will exact a deadly cost.

 (20:01)
I know better. I know you do as well. I know what the American people are capable of. I know what American workers can accomplish when given the room to run. I know that climate change is a challenge that’s going to define our American future. I know meeting the challenge will be a once in a lifetime opportunity to jolt new life into our economy, strengthen our global leadership, protect our planet for future generations. And, if I have the honor of being elected president, we’re not just going to tinker around the edges. We’re going to make historic investments that will seize the opportunity and meet this moment in history. We’re going to get to work delivering results right away on day one. We’re going to reverse Trump’s roll backs of 100 public health and environmental rules, and then forge a path to greater ambition. We’re going to get back into the Paris Agreement, back into the business of leading the world.

 (21:06)
We’re going to lock in progress that no future president can roll back or under cut to take us backward again. Science requires a timetable for measuring progress on climate that isn’t three decades or even two. Science tells us we have nine years before the damage is irreversible. So, my time table for results is my first four years as president, the jobs that we’ll create, the investments we’ll make, and the irreversible steps we’ll take to mitigate and adapt to the climate change and put our nation on the road to net zero emissions no later than 2050. So, let’s not waste any more time. Let’s get to work now, now. Thank you.




 (48:36)
Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Hi, everyone. To everyone at Emgage for organizing this event… Look, I want to thank Emgage and the PAC for endorsing my campaign. I can’t thank you enough for all that you’ve done so far. Thank you for taking the time for watching today. Look, one of the things I think is important… I wish we taught more in our schools about the Islamic faith. I wish we talked about all the great confessional faiths. It’s one of the great confessional faiths. What people don’t realize is… One of my advocation is theology. Don’t realize is that we all come from the same root here in terms of our fundamental, basic beliefs.

 (49:20)
I just want to thank you for giving me the opportunity, for being engaged, for committing to action this November. You’re doing what’s been… that’s never been done before. You’re registered and turning out one million Muslim voters this November. It matters. Your voice is your vote. Your vote is your voice. Muslim American voices matter to our communities, to our country. We all know that your voice hasn’t always gotten recognized, or represented, or the recognition it deserves. That’s your right as a citizen. What you’re doing is making a real difference. I mean that.

 (50:02)
Look, this weekend, I lost a friend. We lost the champion for civil rights of all people, a tireless advocate for making sure every single person could access the power of their vote, the great Congressman John Lewis. From the time he first marched with Dr. King until his last march last month of Black Lives Matter, he understood viscerally that the rights and freedoms of all people are connected. We’re all connected. No one is free while other people are oppressed. It was no surprise that when Donald Trump announced the Muslim ban during his first week in office, John went directly to Hartsfield International Airport in his home district in Atlanta to demand answers of immigration officials. They wouldn’t tell him how many people were being detained. You know what his answer was, simply? Quote, “Why don’t we just sit down and stay awhile?” end of quote.

 (50:58)
As always, John Lewis knew where to stand or to sit to be on the right side of history. The best way to honor John’s legacy is to continue his purpose, continue his commitment to making it easier for every American to cast their ballot and participate in our democracy. In memory of John, Congress should take up the legislation to restore the Voting Rights Act, the legislation he fought so courageously for. They should take it up immediately. If they don’t, I’ll make sure it happens at the beginning of my administration.

 (51:33)
Look, Mr. Chairman, I don’t have to tell any of you that this is the most important election in modern American history. Muslim communities are the first to field Donald Trump’s assault on black and brown communities in this country with his vile Muslim ban. That fight was the opening barrage in what has been nearly four years of constant pressure, and insults, and attacks against Muslim American communities, Latino communities, black communities, AAPI communities, Native Americans. Now Donald Trump has fanned the flames of hate in this country across the board through his words, his policies, his appointments, his deeds, and he continues to fan those flames.

 (52:20)
Under this administration, we’ve seen unconscionable, an unconscionable rise in Islamic phobia in incidents, including kids being bullied in school and hate crimes in our communities. He’s named people with a history of open Islamic phobia, open, straightforward, who have no business serving in high positions in our government to key leadership roles in our Department of Defense, the U.S. Agency for International Development.

 (52:47)
He’s not only an insult to our values, it weakens our standing in the world. What message does this send to the rest of the world? We have led the world not just by the example of our power, but the power of our example. He’s making a mockery of what we stand for. We can do something about it. I’m here today to ask you to join me in a fight to rip this poison from our government root and stem, or as the famous case said, “Root and branch,” starting by making Donald Trump a one-term president this November. I’m not just asking for your support because the alternative is unthinkable. I want to earn your vote, not just because he’s not worthy of being president. I want to work in partnership with you to make sure your voices are included in the decision-making process as we work to rebuild our nation. We can’t just build back to where we were before Donald Trump took office. We have to build back better.

 (53:48)
Right now, we’re facing a trio of urgent crises in this nation: a public health crisis as this pandemic is heading in the wrong direction, an economic crisis with millions of Americans out of work and small businesses struggling to survive, and a racial justice crisis, a long overdue national reckoning about the way our country has treated blacks, browns, and Native Americans. I know Muslim Americans feel that too, especially black Muslims. These come on top of a looming climate crisis, deep-seated economic inequities that have too long divided this country, rewarding those at the very top while working-class folks have to work harder and harder just to stay where they are.

 (54:36)
There’s not a single one of these issues where Muslim Americans don’t have a critical stake in our ability to deliver solutions and real results. There’s not one of these issues where Muslim Americans aren’t essential to our success. Our Muslim medical professionals to frontline workers are fighting around the clock to beat back this virus, risking their own health in the process, or the Muslim small business owners who are the pillars of their community, but have worried about how to keep their doors open. Muslim CEOs are keeping people on the job and keeping our country running like pioneer service outside of Chicago, which retold during COVID-19 from making auto park to manufacturing ventilators. To the Muslims who have suffered abuse and discrimination or worse because of their faith, color of their skin, those working to advance social justice every single day, all those Muslims who have served in the United States military have committed to do so and continue to do so today.

 (55:43)
I’ll be a president who recognize and honors your contributions. These contributions go back, by the way, to our founding. I’ll be a president who seeks out, listens to, and incorporates the ideas and concerns of Muslim Americans on everyday issues that matter most to our communities. That will include having Muslim American voices as part of my administration. If I have the honor of being president, I will end the Muslim ban on day one, day one. I’ll work with Congress to pass hate crime legislation like the Jabara-Heyer NO HATE Act and end the End Racial and Religious Profiling Act.

 (56:27)
I’ll be focused on issues that matter to all Americans: getting the virus under control, addressing health dispersions, working to expand access to healthcare by protecting and building out Obamacare with a public option. I promise you, I’ll make historic investments to revitalize our economy by strengthening American manufacturing and the supply chains and by making sure American workers have an opportunity to join a union and earn a real living wage.

 (56:57)
I like to make sure that all our children are prepared and equipped to succeed in the 21st century. Economy has to change and get better by making critical investments in our teachers and our schools. We’re going to triple the funding for schools in low-income areas. We’re not going to leave schools and child centers on their own to figure out how to keep educators and students safe during a pandemic.

 (57:24)
We’re going to restore American leadership around the world, starting by putting our democratic values and our diplomacy at the center of our foreign policy again. I won’t be writing any love letters to dictators. I won’t fail to speak out against the abuses of human rights, including targeting for violence and prosecution of Muslim minorities around the world. I have, and I’ll continue to speak out for the Uyghurs in Rohingya.

 (57:53)
I’ll work to close those God-awful policies. I’ll work in close cooperation with our partners to meet the moral demands of the humanitarian crisis in Syria, Yemen, and Gaza. I’ll continue to champion the rights of Palestinians and Israelis to have a state of their own as I have for decades, each of them, a state of their own. We’re not going to be able to do any of this if we don’t win in November. That’s why this event and your involvement is so critical. We can’t afford anyone to stay in the sidelines and sit this election out.

 (58:32)
We need you. I need you. I need you to mobilize and motivate one another to register to vote, to make a plan for how to vote safely in November. Make it now. Talk to all your friends and families, to engage colleagues from your mosque and your community centers to get them engaged as well. Hadith from the prophet Muhammad, instructs, “Whomever among you sees wrong, let him change it with his hand. If he is not able, then with his tongue. If he is not able, then with his heart.”

 (59:12)
So many of you are living this teaching in your own communities every day, joining your faith and your principles with the American principles that are consistent, actions to take and make life better for your families, for your neighbors, through service, advocacy work, and preaching peace. You deserve to have a president and an administration who’ll work with you and support you in these efforts, not try to scapegoat your communities or advance xenophobic political agenda on the back of Muslim communities. If I have the honor of being elected president of the United States, together, we can work to right the wrongs, and see our world, and see it better with our hearts, with our hands, with our votes. Again, Mr. Chairman, thank you so much. Thank you so, so very much. May peace be upon you.


 (01:09)
Hello everyone. Well, let me start off by saying hello to Theresa Casey, and the guy that hangs out with her occasionally, and Bobby. Thank you. Thanks for being here, and thanks for welcoming me home. And the McGregor family, all of them, including the long suffering wife who’s had to be the sister, like my sister, of a mayor for all those years. But I want to thank them all. And to Mayor Burk and Mayor Canetti, congratulations. And President Eric Dean. Mr. President, as I said earlier, the Ironworkers have been with me my entire career. The first operation to ever endorsed me in 1972. I wasn’t even old enough to be elected Senator and you guys endorsed me and I was able to turn 30 by the time I got sworn in, but at the time I was elected, I wasn’t old enough.

 (02:07)
And it’s great to be home. My dad is some Dunmore, Mr. Mayor and my mom was from Scranton. And I want to thank, I want to thank Bob and everyone here at the McGregor Industries for showing me around this morning, although I knew of this establishment for a long time, it’s only been around a hundred years, but this is the kind of small manufacturing business that demonstrates that the resilience, the creativity, and the staying power of the American industrial base.

 (02:44)
You know, I’m not telling you anything new, but we’re living through a time unlike any other in American history. Our country is facing three simultaneous crises. A pandemic that’s infected over 3 million Americans and cost thus far over 130,000 lives. Bobby, three times a week I’m on the phone with the national folks, the docs who were head of CDC and other places before. The expectation is they think it get as high as 200,000 before it’s over. And it shows no sign of slowing down.

 (03:27)
We have an economic crisis that’s left almost 18 million Americans out of work, with some of the greatest pain inflicted on small businesses and communities of color. A national reckoning on the issue of racial injustices also, that’s long plagued the United States of America, long plagued dark country. It’s come on top of a widening economic inequity and a mounting climate crisis.

 (03:53)
Each of these, each of these crises, is an enormous challenge that’s testing our strength, our patience, our resilience, and our commitment to our core values, and a commitment to one another. But each of these also presents tremendous opportunity for the nation, an opportunity to prepare now for the future threats we know are just around the corner, an opportunity to address fundamental inequities of our nation, the growing gap between the very wealthy and everyone else. It’s an opportunity to finally and fully live up to the words and the values enshrined in our founding documents of this nation, that we’re all created equal, or we’re entitled to be treated equally for the rest of our lives. Not just created equal, to be treated equally.

 (04:52)
We all know the stakes couldn’t be higher. That’s why it’s no time for the divisive politics we’re hearing more about today. Donald Trump may believe that pitting Americans against Americans will benefit him. I don’t. We have a health crisis, an economic crisis, a racial justice crisis, a climate crisis. We need to come together to solve these crises, to solve them as Americans. This is our moment to imagine, and to build a new American economy for our families and for our communities, an economy where every American, every American has a chance to get a fair return for the work they put in, an equal chance to get ahead.

 (05:46)
My grandpa, when I lived with him down in Greenridge, used to talk about, “Everybody, everybody Joey deserves a shot. Just a shot. Everybody.” An economy that is more powerful we can build precisely because everyone will be cut in on the deal this time, as we rebuild the middle class, this time bringing everyone along. Everybody. An economy that says investing in American people and working families is more important than the nearly $2 trillion in tax breaks predominantly handed out to the super wealthy.

 (06:27)
Donald Trump loves to talk and talk and talk. But after three and a half years of big promises, what do the American people have to show for all the talk? He promised a healthcare plan, but never even offered his own bill as he continues to try to wipe out Obamacare in the middle of a pandemic. Instead, he’s fought repeatedly to take healthcare away from tens of millions of people who didn’t have it before, and over a hundred million people who were covered because they had preexisting conditions now that they couldn’t have gotten coverage for before.

 (07:12)
He promised an infrastructure plan to deliver, deliver on jobs and opportunities. We’re rated as having the 23rd, ranked 23rd in the world in terms of our transportation infrastructure. What happened to all of that?

 (07:31)
He promised to bring back jobs, but manufacturing was in recession even before COVID-19. He promised to buy American, then they let federal contractors double the rate of offshoring jobs in his first 18 months.

 (07:49)
I’m going to change that. We’re going to double the tax on foreign profits so we don’t encourage people to leave and build abroad. And when it comes to COVID-19, after months of doing nothing other than predicting the virus would disappear or maybe if you drank bleach you may be okay, Trump has simply given up. He’s waved the white flag. He’s walked away and his failures come with a terrible human costs and deep economic toll.

 (08:28)
Time and again, working families are paying the price for this administration’s incompetence. There’s no other way to say it than incompetence. Small businesses have ended up with the short end of the stick as well. Less than a third of the massive amounts of money for stimulus that the Congress has passed and the Federal Reserve has made available to the private sector, less than a third of it has gone to mainstream businesses, big businesses, the wealthy, Trump’s cronies-

 (09:03)
Big businesses, the wealthy, Trump’s cronies and pals, they’d be the big winners. As Senator Casey can tell you, they wrote in the law there had to be oversight, an inspector general to make sure where that money went. I’m the guy that had responsibility of handing out $84 billion in the Recovery Act in the financial recession. I met once every two weeks with the inspectors general, everything was open. What are we finding out now? That large chains and hotel chains and chains of restaurants, they divided all the restaurants up and treated them as individual restaurants, they’re already making hundreds of millions of dollars. The mainstream mom and pop businesses, they didn’t get the money.

 (09:56)
The truth is throughout this crisis, Donald Trump has been almost singularly focused on the stock market, the Dow and NASDAQ, not you, not your families. If I am fortunate enough to be elected president, I’ll be laser focused on working families, the middle class families I came from here in Scranton, not the wealthy investor class. They don’t need me, but working families do. And this maybe, should be in my view, the guiding principle, we must reward work as much as we’ve rewarded wealth, but now we just reward excessive wealth. You see growing up rich and looking down on people as a bit different than how I grew up up here. Here nobody thought and understood, nobody thought, but also knew that Wall Street bankers and CEOs didn’t build this country. You can just look around your neighborhood or your kitchen table and see who built this country.

 (11:13)
It was at my grandfather Finnegan’s kitchen table in Greenwich that I learned, money doesn’t determine your worth. He’d say, “Joey, No one in the world is more worthy than you and everyone is equally worthy.” My dad used to have an expression, and the people who follow me I know they’re probably tired of me saying it, but he meant it, and I never understood it as well as I have the last 15 years, he said, “Joey a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in your community. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay.” And mean it.” You know, Mr. President, over 56% of the American people think their kids will never, never reach the standard of living they had.

 (12:14)
And folks, we know who built this country, hardworking folks like you grew up with. And you know who built the middle class? Unions, built the middle class. That’s why we have a middle class. I had an uncle who’d said, ” Joey, your labor from belt buckle to shoe sole.” Well, I’ve taken pride in that because the only way my dad would say you deal with power is with power, with power. In corporate America, and I come from the corporate state of the world, Delaware. The only way to deal with abuse of power is with power and labor, unions are the only one that have that capacity to do it. If that’s raining outside, come on in guys. I don’t want anybody out there… Are you guys in the rain? Or is that not rain? Okay, I thought that was rain. It is, you guys can come on in, don’t stay out there.

 (13:22)
But look, determination, resilience and grit, the strength to get up, no matter how many times you get knocked down, respect for hard work and for the people who do it. These are the values I grew up with and all of you have grown up with. These are the values that I’m going to take with me to the oval office. I’ll get more help to mainstream business and entrepreneurs and ask more of corporate America. Nearly half of the jobs in America are small business jobs. And even back as early as May, some estimates found that more than 100,000 small businesses have been permanently shut down, more have closed and it’s been devastating. So enough is enough, it’s time to reverse the priorities in this country. It’s time to help small businesses, middle class folks manage their way through a pandemic. Let’s help millions of would be entrepreneurs get out from under their debts so they can start businesses.

 (14:35)
And it’s time corporate America paid their fair share of taxes. We thought in our administration we should lower the tax in the high 30s to 28%, [inaudible 00:14:46] lowered it to 21, I’m going to raise it back up to 28, provide hundreds of billions of dollars to invest in the growth of this country. And the days of Amazon paying nothing in federal income tax will be over. Let’s make sure their workers have a power and a voice, it’s way past time we put an end to the era of shareholder capitalism. The idea the only responsibility a corporation has is with shareholders, that’s simply not true, it’s an absolute farce. They have responsibility to their workers, their community, to their country. That isn’t a new or radical notion, these are basic values and principles that helped build this nation in the first instance.

 (15:39)
Now the challenge is to take these fundamental values and apply them to a new economy, we have to build in the years ahead. And folks it’s not sufficient to build back, we have to build back better. That’s what my plan is to build back better. It’s bold, it’s practical and it’s focused on building an economy for the future, not for the past. And it responds to the five truths laid out in this moment of crisis. The first is that we’ve seen in the course of this pandemic that we need to strengthen our industrial base as longterm sources of middle class job creation. Let’s use this opportunity to take bold investments in American industry and innovation so the future is made in America, all in America. I do not accept a defeatist view that forecasted automation and globalization mean we can’t keep well paid jobs here in America and create more of them.

 (16:49)
I do not buy for one second that the vitality of American manufacturing is a thing of the past. America manufacturing was with a functioning arsenal of democracy in WW2, it has to be part of the engine of new prosperity in America now. So today I’m releasing a [inaudible 00:17:09] plan and I think the press has, how to create millions of good paying union jobs, building promising technologies that we need now and we’ll need in the future. And it starts with a pretty basic idea, when we spend taxpayers’ money, when the federal government spends taxpayers’ money, we should use it to buy American products and support American jobs. My plan would tighten the rules to make this a reality, and it goes further, during my first term alone, we’ll invest $400 billion in purchasing products and materials our country needs to modernize our infrastructure, replenish our critical stockpiles and enhance national security. That’s how much the federal government will spend on buying products, the federal government. These funds will provide reliable, predictable demand.

 (18:02)
We’ll provide reliable, predictable demand for products made by American workers and supply chains like this one right here for the American industries. We’ll purchase clean energy technologies, fight climate change, building materials, including steel products, like those produced here, stockpiles of critical goods and equipment and advanced technologies to modernize our government and enhance our national security. To ensure the future is made in America, we need to win not just the jobs of today we have to invest in what the jobs and industries of tomorrow are going to be. The Chinese are spending multiple billions of dollars trying to own the technology of the future while we sit with our thumb in our ear. That means fighting unfair trade practices, curbing the threat of intellectual property by countries like China. America can’t sit in the sidelines in a race to the future.

 (19:03)
That’s why I’m proposing a dramatic research and development investment of $300 billion in my first four years alone to sharpen American’s competitive edge in the new industries where global leadership is up for grabs like battery technology, artificial intelligence, biotechnology, clean energy. That’s the future. And this money will be used purposefully to ensure all of America’s in on the deal, including communities that historically been left out; black, Brown and native American entrepreneurs, cities, and towns everywhere in the region and the country. All told, this’ll be a mobilization of R&D and procurement investment in ways not seen since the great depression and World War two. In addition to bringing back the jobs that had been lost this year, my plan will help create at least 5 million, 5 million new, good paying jobs. As experts have looked at it in manufacturing and innovation and create them right here in the United States of America.

 (20:11)
The second thing we’ve seen the importance of a more resilient economy for the long term. Our President wasn’t prepared for this pandemic. He ignored the detailed briefings and warning that our administration left behind. The threat of a pandemic we told them was coming. We gave all this to his administration and transition, but he shut it all down. He shut down the pandemic office we had inside The White House. He praised the Chinese government, even as the virus was coming to our shores because he was so afraid that they’d walk away from his trade deal that cost us significant amounts of money as well. Let’s not get caught flat footed again. Let’s get prepared to meet the challenges of the climate crisis, that means investing in infrastructure, clean energy, creating millions of good paying union jobs in the process.

 (21:10)
Next week, I’ll be laying out an updated blueprint of how we can build a modern, safe, sustainable infrastructure and the clean energy economy, and how to make sure that the communities that have suffered the most from pollution are the first to benefit from this investment, how to strengthen the union movement, how to make sure that unions are building America, just like they built the middle class.

 (21:33)
Third thing, we’ve seen in this pandemic, the immense burden on working parents, especially women, they’re carrying as if they’re … They find themselves in a position where they’re working or attempting to work, they’re attempting to take care of their children who were young at the same time, they’re aging parents or need help and are suffering from disabilities. It’s been especially hard in this crisis, but let’s face it. It’s always hard. Let’s make it easier to afford childcare and care for our aging relatives, our moms and our dads. Let’s offer more, pay more economic dignity to millions of workers, often women, often women of color who are entrusted to help teach our youngest and care for our oldest at the same time.

 (22:24)
Donald Trump has no idea what it’s like to be a single parent who’s barely getting by, but needs to find childcare. He doesn’t have a clue what it’s like to provide for an aging parent and that’s understandable, but it’s unconscionable that he doesn’t even try to understand or empathize with the struggling of so many millions of people out there like a lot of you. I’ll bet there’s a lot of you out there in the audience, including the press, you understand that personally. I understand it. I know how hard it is to be a single dad who asked to work with two young sons at home. I know what it means to bring your aging parents into your home in the last months of their lives, care for them as well. I’ve done both and I had great help. I have a really close family and I was a US Senator making $42,000 a year at a time. I’ve done both. It’s hard, but it’s so much harder for millions of Americans are trying to make ends meet.

 (23:32)
In the weeks ahead, I’ll be laying out a plan to mobilize American talent and hearts to build a 21st century caregiving and education workforce. The fourth thing we’ve seen is millions of American workers and small businesses. Business owners put their lives on the line to keep their county or should be their country going. We need to treat these folks and their families as essential, not just in times of crisis, but all times. We call these folks the essential worker. I think the blinders have been taken off the bulk of the American people. Those who could afford to stay at home and stay in place. They look out there and they realize it was that grocery store clerk stacking the shelves. It was that nurse’s aid trying to find protective gear to take care of someone that’s on a ventilator. It’s that truck driver. It’s that mail delivery person. The essential worker, you see these ads will be clap for them as they come down the street. First responders. Well, it’s time we not only clap for them, it’s time we pay them.

 (24:44)
The idea that every one of them is not worth at least a minimum of $15 an hour, or spend time with frontline workers and then tell them they shouldn’t have the right to organize and become part of a union, organized for better pay, for paid leave, for benefits, for working conditions, where we insist that they have safe and sanitary conditions to work in. Maybe it is possible for him to ignore it, but I can’t and I won’t. There’s not enough just to praise these workers. We need to pay them.

 (25:22)
Let’s finish the job of Obamacare by ensuring everyone has access to quality, affordable healthcare. Let’s lower the cost of prescription drugs and stop the surprise billing and provide public options to cover the millions of Americans who are without healthcare, by adding it to Obamacare. Let’s make sure everyone has access to good education, regardless of the zip code. Let’s triple the amount of money we spend on Title One schools. Those are Title One schools and you have 18 of them, 18 of Title One schools in Scranton and Dunmore. It means that they’re very low tax basis so they’re having trouble keeping teachers. I’d triple the amount of money we spend on those from $15 billion a year to $45 billion, raising the salaries for the teachers in those schools up to $60,000 a year, making sure every single solitary child, aged three, four, and five is able to go to school, not daycare, Mr. Mayor.

 (26:23)
All the data shows and studies show whether it’s [inaudible 00:26:26] or it’s at University of Pennsylvania, anywhere around, that that increases above 58% to chance that that child will go all the way through and graduate without having any trouble. Imagine what a big difference it will make. I think because of this pandemic, everyone has renewed appreciation for just how hard our teachers work, how important their job is. Let’s give them the resources and the support they need, both to get through this crisis and empower the next generation of American ground breakers. Let’s pay them. These aren’t somebody else’s children, they’re all our children. They’re…

 (27:02)
These aren’t somebody else’s children, they’re all our children. They’re the children. Those children are the kite strings that hold our national ambitions aloft. And our teachers, our teachers are critical. And finally, we’ve seen with horrifying clarity, the cost of systemic racism, the need for a comprehensive agenda for racial equality in our country. It isn’t just about police reform. It’s about dealing with the deep wound of systemic racism in this nation.

 (27:34)
So we need a dedicated agenda to close the wealth gap, expand affordable housing, invest in brown and black and AAPI, Native American entrepreneurs, make real the promise of educational opportunity. For too long the battle for racial equality has divided America. It should be used now to unite us.

 (27:57)
Donald Trump cynically claims that he’s defending Americans’ heritage by embracing the Confederate flag and public monuments of generals who rebelled against and were treasonous against the United States of America, people who tried to permanently rip this nation apart.

 (28:17)
Do you think Donald Trump has any idea that 360,000 Pennsylvanians fought on the side of the Union to defeat the flag, that Confederate flag, including more black soldiers coming from the state of Pennsylvania and any other state in the nation? Do you think he has any clue that 33,000 Pennsylvanians died in the Civil War fighting against everything that flag stood for?

 (28:44)
I see a different America than Trump, one that despite all our flaws and shortcomings and failings, is still, after more than two centuries, dedicated to equality, liberty and human dignity. The challenges we face today are among the biggest than our history. We have to come together in this country to solve them. There’s no other way.

 (29:08)
I got criticized during the primaries by saying I was running for three reasons, restore the soul of America, number two, to rebuild the backbone of the country, the middle class, and three, unite America. And I was told you can’t unite it. If we can’t unite America, we’re done. I’ve long said America is at its best when we act as one nation, one America. That’s the tragedy of Donald Trump being president today. He’s exactly the wrong person to lead at this moment. He’ll not bring this country together. He’s determined to drive us apart, to keep his base in place. He’ll not be president for all the American people, his base. He believes he was elected president only by his base, and he’ll not appeal to the best instincts in the rest of us. He’s determined to stroke and revive the worst moments from our past.

 (30:04)
I have no illusion how tough the road ahead is going to be for our country, but I’m an optimist for one reason above all others. I know the history and the heart of this country, and given a chance, just a chance, ordinary Americans can and have done extraordinary things, and they’ll never ever, ever let their country down given half a chance. They won’t let it down.

 (30:34)
The only thing that can tear America part, and I mean this sincerely, no foreign country, not the way he coddles up to, well, I shouldn’t even get into this, but coddles up to Putin and others. They can’t tear us apart. The only entity, the only thing that can tear America apart is America itself, period. So we just need to remember who we are. This is the United States of America. There is not a single thing, nothing, not a single thing we’ve ever failed to do when we’ve decided to do it together. That’s what this is about, doing it together. We have a great opportunity to build back and build back better. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you.



Our country was founded on an idea, “We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal.” We’ve never lived up to it. Jefferson himself didn’t. He held slaves, women were excluded, but once proposed it was an idea that couldn’t be constrained. It survived the ravages of the Civil War, the dogs of Bull Connor, the assassination of Martin Luther King and more than 200 years of systemic racism, and just weeks ago the murder of George Floyd. Through it all, these words have gnawed at our conscience and pulled us towards justice.

 (00:39)
American history is no fairy tale. It’s been a constant push and pull between two parts of our character, the idea that all men and women, all people are created equal, and the racism that has torn us apart. We have a chance now to give the marginalized, the demonized, the isolated, the oppressed a full share of the American dream. We have a chance to rip the roots of systemic racism out of this country. We have a chance to live up to the words that have founded this nation. This Independence Day let’s not just celebrate the words, let’s celebrate that promise and commit to work, the work that we must do to fulfill that promise. We remain locked in the battle for the soul of this nation, but believe me, truly, it’s a battle we can and we will win if we act together. Happy Fourth.



 (00:00)
Thanks a lot for being here. I can’t tell whether you’re smiling or not, but thanks for being here. I want to take a few minutes to tell you a little bit about what I think we should be doing right now, and then be happy to take questions. For weeks, we’ve been seeing the warning signs. Numbers don’t lie. Infection rates are now going up in more states than there are going down. More than 125,000 people in the United States have lost their lives, and those numbers and new infections continue to grow at alarming rate. And once again is confronting the simple fact that we won’t be able to solve the economic crisis without a rigorous public health approach. They’re not separable. Despite the administration’s propaganda, that their response should be a cause for celebration, despite President Trump’s requests that we should slow down testing because he thinks it makes him look bad, the COVID-19 is still here, and the daily threat to American health and prosperity is continuing.

 (01:10)
It didn’t have to be this way. Month after month, as other leaders in other countries took the necessary steps to get the virus under control, Donald Trump failed us. Month after month, as many of us urged him to step up and do his job, he failed us. Just look at the record. In January, I, along with others, sounded the alarm of the coronavirus outbreak. Trump told the country that COVID-19 is, quote, “totally under control,” and then everything will, quote, “work out well.” In February, I warned about the failure to get information that we needed from the Chinese government. What I said was the president should demand Xi produce the evidence. Demand it. Trump said, quote, “We’re in great shape.” Reported China’s president said it was, quote, “doing very well.”

 (02:13)
In March, I set forth a detailed plan for 500 federally funded testing sites across the country, as well as guaranteed emergency paid leave. Later that month, I called for a full and immediate use of the Defense Production Act. Critical, critical for delivering supplies that were basically needed. Trump accused healthcare workers. How did he respond? He accused health workers of stealing your masks. That’s what he said. “Healthcare workers are stealing the masks. That’s why we don’t have them.”

 (02:47)
In April, I released a plan to secure the supply chain for personal protective equipment, surge nationwide testing through a pandemic testing board, and launch a nationwide health corp to focus on contact tracing. Trump’s suggestions? Americans should inject disinfectants into their bodies. In May, I condemned the false choice between preserving public health and our economy. I urged the administration to focus on the basic public health measures, like testing, that would enable us to sustain our economic recovery. Trump’s response? He pushed for reopening without regard to safety, and called testing, quote, “frankly, overrated.”

 (03:37)
This month, I outlined a path to reopen our country safely and sustainably. It provided workers, small businesses, schools, state, local governments, the tools, resources, and guidance that they would need. Trump’s proposal, he set a cutoff date for federal funding of testing sites in several states, and actually went to court to take away healthcare for 22 million people by trying to get rid of Obamacare. And now Donald Trump is in retreat. Remember, back in March, when I called, and he called, we talked about the need to act like we were at war with the virus. He called himself a war time president. Remember when he exhorted the nation to sacrifice together, and quote, ” in the face of this inevitable and invisible enemy”? What happened? Now, it’s almost July, and it seems like our war time president has surrendered, waived the white flag, and left the battlefield.

 (04:48)
Today, we’re facing a serious threat and we have to meet it. We have to meet it as one country, but the president gives no direction, and he pits us against one another. We can’t continue like this. Half recovery, and half getting worse. We can’t continue half wearing masks and half rejecting science. We can’t continue half with a plan and half just hoping for the best. We won’t defeat this virus with a piecemeal approach, lifting restrictions prematurely, increasing the volatility of the crisis, raising the likelihood of needing to reimpose restrictions. Until our science catches up to reality, until we have better treatment for those who become infected, and ultimately are safe, proven, widely available vaccines, we have to continue to do all we can, as the people in the government, to keep our fellow Americans safe and healthy.

 (05:58)
Today, I’m releasing a plan with the steps I believe Donald Trump should undertake immediately, to build on the roadmap I released back in March that would have saved lives if it had been adopted. It’s a plan to save lives in the months ahead. Once again, I encourage him to adopt this plan and in its entirety. This is too important for politics.

 (06:26)
First, testing, testing, testing. More testing is not only how you find more cases of coronavirus, Mr. President, it’s how you stop the coronavirus cases. Testing followed by rigorous contact tracing, quarantine, and isolation protocols for those who have been exposed. People aren’t waiting in lines for miles and miles long in baking hot cars for drive through nasal swabs for the fun of it. They’re doing it so they can protect themselves, but even more importantly, they know when they have this mask on, they’re protecting others. They’re protecting others.

 (07:13)
We know we’re not where we need to be in testing. There are still hospitals and nursing homes that don’t have access to the tests they need. Testing is how we see what’s happening in communities all across the country. It’s our eyes on the ground. Without that testing, we’re flying blind. That’s why it’s so important to have reliable access to testing everywhere. We need to increase federal support for testing. That includes doubling the number of drive through testing sites and keep increasing them until there are no more lines. We should create a pandemic testing board to spearhead a nationwide campaign, so every worker, every worker who’s called back to their job can have the confidence that they and their fellow workers are not infected.

 (08:08)
Experts agree that we need more contact tracers to track the path of this virus. Individual states like New York and California are already hiring and training thousands of tracers, but we need to do more, including hiring at least 100,000 federally funded workers to perform contact tracing and other public health tasks, and they should begin to be trained now.

 (08:34)
Second, every single frontline worker should have the personal protective equipment that they need to be safe. Five months into this crisis, and our healthcare workers still are forced to scramble for their own supplies, and have to reuse these masks shift after shift. Hundreds, hundreds of healthcare workers have died from COVID-19, and tens of thousands have become infected. It should be zero on both counts for these healthcare workers if they had the right equipment. You know, how are we this many months into this and still, still don’t have what we need? That’s why we have a Defense Production Act.

 (09:21)
You know, Mr. President, use your authority, Mr. President. Use it this week. Scale up the production of N95 masks. The steps you’ve taken so far haven’t gotten the job done, Mr. President. Fix the shortage of PPE for our healthcare workers before you tee off another round of golf. We can’t just look at where we are today. We’re going to need these masks and gloves and face shields for the foreseeable future, and we need to be ready. We know more is coming.

 (09:55)
Thirdly, we should be laser focused on treatments and vaccines. We should be leading a coordinated global approach on the science, not disregarding experts while pushing dangerous and disproved drugs as if they’re treatments. There’s been some progress toward treatment and vaccines, but the administration hasn’t been transparent about how they plan to manufacture enough doses to make sure there’s equitable distribution to scale. I hope they’re doing it now. I called for a while ago, they should be providing $250 million to have a plan now, exactly how they’re going to distribute this, so every American has access when and if the vaccine’s available. They may be doing it, but we have no transparency. Let us see, Mr. President. The White House should report weekly on this progress. We can’t end up in the same scratching and distribution problems that we had in testing.

 (10:59)
We need to make sure the customers aren’t being gouged by new drug and therapies in prices when they’re developed. We have to immediately restore our relationship with the World Health Organization, for all its shortcomings and missteps around COVID-19. This is why WHO was created. It is essential to coordinating the global response during a pandemic, and the United States should be leading that response as we had in the past. COVID- 19 will likely worsen at the outset of flu season this year, so we need put in place measures now, now, to ensure the seasonal flu vaccine can be ready, available, and administered safely to those who need it under social distancing guidelines, especially for seniors.

 (11:50)
Fourthly, we need real plans, real guidelines, with uniform nationwide standards, to help us chart our economic reopening. Whatever we’ve been doing now is not working. The state by state approach will only produce confusion and slow any progress. You all reported to CDC, tried to clear guidelines about what stages of reopening should look like. The administration delayed and scaled back those plans. We need clear evidence, clear evidence-based steps that states can adopt now. Both the standard must be met in order to safely proceed with further openings, and the reposition of social distancing rules when cases begin to rise.

 (12:47)
This is not rocket science. We need to support schools and childcare programs so parents, if and when they can return to work, are confident that their children will be safe and cared for. We should be holding them for-

 (13:03)
We should be holding and providing a sticker saying, safe for shoppers, a certification to stores that prove they’re minimizing their customer’s risk and exposure. We absolutely needed a clear messages from the very top of our federal government that everyone needs to wear a mask in public, period. Period. Wear a mask. It’s not just about you. It’s about your family. It’s about your neighbors. It’s about your colleagues. It’s about keeping other people safe. It helps you, yes, but it’s about keeping other people safe. It’s a simple measure. It is also one of the most effective ways we can do the right thing. It may be inconvenient. It may be uncomfortable. But it’s the right thing to do as an American. Protect your coworkers and neighbors.

 (14:06)
And finally, we need to protect the populations most at risk, our seniors, our black and brown populations, native communities that are being hit the hardest, vulnerable populations with preexisting conditions. Know that this continued growth in case numbers is causing a lot of fear and anxiety. People, especially older Americans and those with loved ones in nursing homes, I get calls all the time. They’re simply scared. They’re frightened. This isn’t just taking a toll on the physical health. It’s an emotional cost as well. We can’t expect vulnerable populations to quarantine indefinitely without support. I want them to know that their health and safety will be my responsibility, if I’m your president. And I will not abandon you.

 (15:09)
These are five fairly straightforward steps that are going to help defeat this pandemic. And, if you suspect that a lot of these steps are the same sorts of things I was talking about in March when I released my first COVID-19 response, you’d be right. If it feels like you’re hearing the experts talk about the same issues for months, you’d be right. These have always been the steps that government needed to put in place to meet the threat.

 (15:46)
Statewide lockdowns that so many Americans lived under for months were intended to buy us time to get our act together. Instead of using that time to prepare ourselves, Donald Trump squandered it. Now, here we are, more than three months later. We’re hardly better prepared than we were in March. Infections are on the rise. The threat of massive spikes that overwhelm the capacity of our healthcare system is on the horizon. Americans, anxious and out of work, are fearful for their lives and their livelihoods. Donald Trump is doing next to nothing about it. Mr. President, the crisis is real. The crisis is real and it’s surging, Mr. President. Your promises, and predictions, and wishful thinking pulled out of thin air are not only doing the country no good, you’re making them lose even more faith in their government.

 (16:57)
America knows this crisis isn’t behind us, even if you don’t. They see what’s happening, even if you refuse to, Mr. President. They know we need a coordinated national plan, we need it now, even though you don’t, Mr. President, and won’t do it. You called yourself a cheerleader. We don’t need a cheerleader, Mr. President. We need a president, Mr. President. A president who will level with the American people, a president who will tell us the unvarnished truth, a president who will take responsibility instead of always blaming others, a president who will listen to the experts, follow the science, allow them to speak, a president who will lead and be an example for the nation. Wear a mask. Keep your distance. Limit the size of crowds. Mr. President, this is not about you. It’s about the health and wellbeing of the American public.

 (18:06)
American people don’t make enormous sacrifices over the past four months so they could just waste their time and you could waste all the efforts they have undertaken with your midnight rantings and tweets. They don’t make these sacrifices so you could ignore the science and turn responsible steps, like wearing masks, into a political statement. And they certainly didn’t do it, Mr. President, so you could wash your hands and walk away from this responsibility. Maybe there are times this nation needs a cheerleader. Now is not one of them. America needs a president. Whatever Trump does or does not do, we can’t know today what the state of the COVID-19 pandemic will be next January. But I’m almost certain, I hope I turn out to be wrong, I’m almost certain it won’t be over.

 (19:10)
If I should have the honor of being elected president, on the day I’m sworn in, I’ll get right to work implementing all aspects of the response that remain undone. I’ll have more to say about my day one COVID-19 agenda in the weeks to come. But my response will begin well before I take the oath of office. It will start as soon as the election is decided. I’ll be a president who respects scientists, who won’t censor their ability to speak directly to the American people. I will immediately reach out to Dr. Anthony Fauci to ask him to continue his incredible service to the country. And I’ll have, from day one, ready to go the best medical experts and scientists to advise on our response. Maybe most importantly, I will listen to them and let them speak freely. And I’ll work with the governors and mayors of both parties from every state, territory, and tribe.

 (20:17)
It’s a simple proposition folks. We’re all in this together. We got to fight this together. We’ll emerge from this stronger because we did it together. And I’m confident we can. May God bless you all and may God protect our troops. And I’m happy to take questions, if you have them.

 (20:40)
They gave me a list of how to recognize. Is Alex, AP out there? Couldn’t tell when the mask, Alex?

Alex: (20:47)
[inaudible 00:20:48]. We’ll work with that. All right. So, we reported yesterday that President Trump was briefed as early as March of 2019 that Russia had ordered or offered bounties to the Taliban for the killing of U.S. soldiers. You called his inaction on this issue a betrayal. So broadly, what consequences do you think the president should face for that betrayal? And specifically, what do you think Congress should do?

 (21:17)
Well, look, first of all, Congress and the intelligence committees on the Congress, both parties should demand the facts. This seems to be a moving story. As I was leaving, I had the television on as I put on my shirt. And I understand there’s even some more information that’s come out today about what was known.

 (21:41)
One of two things, this president talks about cognitive capability. He doesn’t seem to be cognitively aware of what’s going on. He either reads and/or gets briefed on important issues and he forgets it, or he doesn’t think it’s necessary that he need to know it. But the fact is that, at a minimum, at a minimum, the discrepancy allegedly within the intelligence community as reported, some thought it was more certain and others thought it was less certain. That should be resolved. The president should have, on day one, said, I want you to come before me in the situation room and lay out the differences and discretions. Who is saying what? Let’s get to the bottom of it, number one.

 (22:38)
Number two, it’s clear to me that, and I don’t know whether he did, he should have immediately contacted our joint chiefs of staff, gotten them all in one room and sat and said, okay. What are we doing to prevent this? What are we doing to prepare to deal with this, if this is happening? How are we doing this? What are we doing?

 (23:02)
Thirdly, he should, at a minimum, have picked up the phone and said, Vladimir, old buddy, if any of this is true and it doesn’t cease immediately, you’ve got a big problem, a big problem. And make it clear. Get to the bottom of this. It appears as though, from what I have… and I don’t have access to classified information anymore. But, if what I have heard over the last week and the recent reporting that it was in the PDB, the presidential daily brief. The presidential daily brief is something I read every single day as vice president. The president read it every day. I was briefed every morning before I got to the White House, and then again. So, the idea that somehow he didn’t know or isn’t being briefed, it is a dereliction of duty, if that’s the case. And, if he was briefed and nothing was done about this, that’s a dereliction of duty.

 (24:01)
I guess the best way for me to end this is, I was talking to Jill, my wife, Jill. And I don’t see her get outraged very often. But she started asking. She said, Joe, what would you have done if Beau was still in harm’s way? And this information came out? And the president, Beau is my son who was… I’m sorry, I apologize, who served in Iraq for a year, was in the army. But, if he’d been in Afghanistan, what would you do, Joe? What are those parents thinking out there? What are those sons and daughters, husbands and wives? It’s an absolute dereliction of duty if any of this is even remotely true. So, I think the president has a lot to answer for and we should get the answers quickly, quickly.

Alex: (24:53)
What consequences should he face if these allegations are true or these reports are true?

 (24:58)
If these allegations are true and he did nothing about any of this, then in fact, I think the public should, unrelated to my running, conclude that this man isn’t fit to be president of the United States of America.

Alex: (25:12)
Do you think he… do you-

 (25:14)
I was told, NBC, Mike. Mike’s great relief, he doesn’t have to follow me every day around the country.

Mike: (25:23)
Well, the last time, Mr. Vice President, a lot of us saw you on the campaign trail, you were still locked in a very difficult nomination battle. The polls though today show you with a sizeable national lead, a lead in a lot of the states that are critical in the electoral college. I wonder, where do you think the race stands at this moment? What keeps you up at night as you look ahead? And can you maintain this advantage without campaigning in a traditional way, especially this fall when voters begin to really tune in?

 (25:51)
Well, this is the most unusual campaign, I think, in modern history. But I start off with the premise, Mike, that I’m going to follow the doc’s orders.

 (26:03)
Off of the premise, Mike, that I’m going to follow the doc’s orders, not just for me, but for the country, and that means that I am not going to be holding rallies. I am not going to be … For example, you all are here, but I think the school has put those circles around, so we keep the social distancing. Everybody has masks on. As soon as I finish this, I’ll put my mask back on. And so it’s all been, almost all been virtual, although I have gone to Houston, I have gone into Pennsylvania, I have gone to Virginia. I have traveled, but when I do, I get in, make my case, and leave, take questions, and leave. But you know me. I’d much rather be out there with people because that’s where I get the greatest feel. I can get a sense of what, by the look in their eyes, by the plaintive voices that they have, and what they’re concerned about.

 (26:58)
But notwithstanding that, I have been surprised. The irony is we probably reach more people directly on one-on-one. You all, particularly those of you who are with television stations, you all know that when you’re on, you’re having a one-to-one conversation with someone out there because there’s one person at the TV looking at you. I never quite thought of it that way before. But they tell me 200 million people have watched what I have done from home, in the half a dozen things we’ve gone out and done.

 (27:34)
And so the irony is, I think we’re probably communicating directly in detail with more people than we would have otherwise. But I’d much rather be doing it in person. So far, it remains to be seen, I don’t want to jinx myself. I know the polling data is very good, but I think it’s really early. It’s much too early to make any judgment. I think we’ve got a whole lot more work to do. I’ve planned on laying out in detail my economic plan as to how we recover from this, plan on dealing with foreign … Working out in detail, what I’m going to do if I am elected president so the people know what’s coming. I don’t know that that answers your question, Mike, but-

Speaker 1: (28:15)
Quick follow-up to Alex’s question first. Have you requested a classified briefing, as you would be entitled to as the nominee? Has the administration offered you a classified briefing? And then-

 (28:24)
They have not offered a classified briefing. And as this proceeds, I may very well do that. I’ve been talking to … I have a significant foreign policy staff, as you know, that, matter of fact, dozens of them. So I had a long meeting with my former national security advisors, former secretaries of state, et cetera, and got in their read, what they’ve heard so far. But if it doesn’t get cleared up quickly, then I will seek and ask if I can be briefed.

Speaker 1: (29:00)
Lastly, have you begun to prepare for debates against President Trump?

 (29:03)
I can hardly wait. [inaudible 00:29:08]

Alex: (29:08)
Thank you. Over the weekend, Princeton decided to remove Woodrow Wilson’s name from their school and buildings due to his racist thinking. President Trump yesterday called that decision “incredible stupidity.” What do you think about Princeton’s decision and the president’s comments? And then more broadly, as the nation is in this moment of reckoning when it comes to race, we’re seeing the removal of statues, also the removal of names from institutions and schools, do you think that this is the right approach to come to terms with our nation’s history and its leaders? What do you think when you see the removal of some of these statues?

 (29:49)
Well, I think there are sort of three categories on that. One, any institution that chose a name and wants to now jettison that name, that’s a decision for them to make, for whatever reason they make it. So I’m assuming the board of trustees at Princeton University made the judgment about the Woodrow Wilson School. I don’t know. But it was made within the context of an institution that chose that name and now no longer wants to be associated with that name.

 (30:18)
And I think the president is …. Well, secondly, I think there’s a distinction between, as the former mayor of New Orleans said, “The difference between reminders and remembrances of history and recovering from history.” And so the idea of comparing whether or not George Washington owned slaves or Thomas Jefferson owned slaves and somebody who was in rebellion committing treason, running, trying to take down the union to keep slavery, I think there’s a distinction there. And so I think the idea of bringing down, I think all those Confederate monuments to Confederate soldiers and generals, et cetera, who strongly supported secession and the maintenance of slavery and going to war to do it, I think those statues belong in museums. They don’t belong in public places.

 (31:22)
And I think with regard to those statues that are in monuments like the Jefferson Memorial or whatever, I think there’s an obligation that the government protect those monuments because they’re different than that’s a remembrance. It is not a dealing with, revering somebody who had that view. They had much broader views. They may have things in their past that are now and then distasteful, but that’s a judgment for the … For example, taking down, toppling Christopher Columbus statue, George Washington’s statue, or et cetera, I think that is something that is, the government has an opportunity and a responsibility to protect from happening.

Alex: (32:07)
And on a different subject, you have been doing these public events for the past month, which has put you in contact with more people. Have you been tested for coronavirus, and if so, how frequently are you doing that?

 (32:20)
No, I have not been protected. I have not been tested for the coronavirus for two reasons. One, I have had no symptoms. As my mother would say, knock on wood. And number two, I haven’t wanted to take anybody else’s place in the process. But the Secret Service, they all get tested. They’re around my home. And anyone who comes into my home, including staff, is tested, just to determine whether they have the virus. I expect what I’m going to do so it doesn’t look like I’m moving in the front of the line here is be tested relatively soon. My daughter has been tested. She was in Florida. She’s a social worker working with the Boys and Girls Club. She came home, and before she could come home, she’s been tested twice, so to make sure she’s clear and quarantined … She lives in Philadelphia. But I haven’t yet. I have not been tested yet.

 (33:24)
Yes. I’m sorry. Who was I supposed to go to next? Anybody? I got to make sure I get the Wilmington newspaper here before I leave or I’ll be dead.

Speaker 2: (33:36)
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It’s good to see you, and I know we all hope that you continue to do this through November as often as possible.

 (33:44)
We will. The more I have an opportunity, I will do it.

Speaker 2: (33:47)
Two quick questions. One to follow up on Russia. You talked about what our president has done, but yesterday you said at a fundraiser regarding Vladimir Putin, quote, I’ll confront Putin. I’ll strengthen NATO. I’ll make clear to Putin that he’ll have a price to pay for interference in our democratic processes. Specifically, can you tell us what you would do to Putin? If this is true, and in general, for what’s happened in the past.

 (34:16)
I can, but I will not … But I will tell him. Here’s the deal. The idea that Putin or any other foreign leader can engage in attempting to manipulate the presidential election, the idea that he continues his activities in Central and Eastern Europe, that he’s doing, the idea that it can be done without any consequences is not going to happen if I’m president in my administration. That ranges from everything to making sure we go to the United Nations Security Council, all the way to imposing sanctions that would be commensurate with the action that he has taken that is inappropriate. But I have had some very blunt, straightforward conversations with President Putin when I was vice president and before that, and I think one of the reasons why it appears as though he doesn’t want me to be president, he knows we’ll have more blunt conversations.

Speaker 2: (35:14)
And another issue that’s been in the news last week, this week, probably next week, the Supreme Court. President says he’s going to issue an updated list of potential nominees to the court. You have said you would put a black woman on the court, should a spot open up. But there are groups calling for you to release a list of specific names you’d put on the court. Are you going to do that? Would you do that?

 (35:35)
One thing I hesitate to do is follow anything the president does at all, because he usually does it all wrong. We are putting together a list of a group of African American women who are qualified and have the experience to be in the court. I am not going to release that until we go further down the line of vetting them as well. And just like logical questions about vice president, I’m not releasing the names of all the vice presidential potential nominees. There are a number of women of color. There are Latina women. There are Asian. There are across the board, and we’re just underway now in the hard vet of going into the deep background checks that take anywhere from six to eight weeks to be done. The committees have been formed, and that’s underway.

Speaker 2: (36:27)
And August 1 is still the target announcement date?

 (36:29)
Well, early August. I can’t guarantee you August 1, but it will be in early August before, several weeks before the convention, I believe. Yes.

Speaker 3: (36:45)
Thank you, Mr. Vice president. This is a two-parter, just to follow up again on Russia. Do you believe that if those reports are true that Trump is guilty of violating his oath of office? And on your VP choice, you’ve said that you want your running mate to be ready on day one to do the job. Do you think that someone who does not have national security or foreign policy experience can be ready on day one?

 (37:14)
Yes. And that depends. Look, one of the things you try to do, I’ve talked at length over the years with President Obama about this. You try to find people who have a background and an expertise that you may not have. And so one of the reasons President Obama picked me is because I had considerable experience in getting things done in the Congress. And secondly, I had considerable experience in foreign policy and national security. And although he had clear views of what in fact he wanted to do and what his standard what his strategy was in terms of America’s role in the world, he was looking for someone that had day-to-day experience and knew a lot of those world leaders. And so I think that, although that’s a helpful thing to have, it’s not necessary because I start off with the two places I still have some expertise are in both those places, in uniting the country and the Congress and foreign policy.

 (38:18)
And so it is almost all of the women I’m considering have had some exposure to foreign policy and national defense issues and security issues. But that is not a minimum requirement. Requirement is that they have the intellectual capacity, as well as the temperament, as well as the leadership qualities that lend to everyone to believe that they would be ready on day one to be President of the United States of America. With regard to whether or not the president … It depends on exactly what he did and what he knew, but at a minimum, at a minimum, he either does-

 (39:03)
And what he knew, but at a minimum, at a minimum, either doesn’t understand his job and is having difficulty sitting down and being able to read a report because a lot of those reports come across that he says, “I didn’t read it,” or. “I didn’t see it,” or, “I didn’t know it.” I don’t know how he could not read and not see and not know so many different things that have come up over the last three years. But it is clearly a dereliction of duty and it is clearly something that I think everyone, including my Republican friends and my Republican opponents in the House and Senate are worried about as well. Thank you.

Speaker 4: (39:45)
All right. Last question.

 (39:47)
All right. Where’s the Delaware State News? I mean Delaware News Channel I should say. That’s my hometown team. I better call on them.

Speaker 5: (39:58)
How are you Mr. Vice President?

 (39:59)
How are you?

Speaker 5: (40:01)
So like other States, Delaware, your home state, is seeing an increase in coronavirus cases. Do you have a message for Delaware officials, state, and local governments for how they’ve handled the pandemics so far, how they need to handle it going forward?

 (40:14)
Well, I think they’ve handled it pretty well so far, but now I think you’re seeing the governor make some adjustments because there has been an uptick, not tremendous, but there’s been an uptick. It was one of the states that was, I get briefed up every day by a group of leading docs around the world, around the country, Vic Murphy and Dr. Ben. Anyway. And so every day I get a printout, I have it in the book here, of the states that are doing better and doing worse. Up to now, there has been a decline and now it’s opening up slightly. I have not spoken to the governor today, but my guess is, I’d only guess, is that he’s going to be looking very closely what happens on the Delaware beaches now, how that has occurred and restaurants and bars. I don’t know enough to know that though.

 (41:08)
The good news is that it’s flattened out. The bad news is there’s a slight uptick and I have not gone into the detail of the governor. I speak to him not infrequently, but a couple of times a month, three, four times a month. And so I don’t have any advice for him yet because I don’t know where it’s popping up.

Speaker 5: (41:32)
Thank you.

 (41:32)
Thank you.

Speaker 4: (41:32)
[inaudible 00:41:33].

 (41:42)
I’m going to get in trouble. Fire away. I know. Tell them I’ll be late. Just a little bit. Okay? All right?

Speaker 6: (41:47)
Thank you, Mr. Vice President.

 (41:48)
I always get in trouble on the last question, but go ahead.

Speaker 6: (41:51)
We appreciate it. The response to this pandemic has become very politicized. Even wearing a mask has become political. If elected, how are you going to get Americans on the same page? And can your plan be successful if they aren’t?

 (42:07)
Well, I think the way to get on the same page is to… I’m going to try to say this politely, is to lower the rhetoric based on division. Stop appealing to the less healthy side of society. Instead of, for example, when a golf cart goes by yelling, “White supremacy,” and the president tweets it out, don’t do things like that. Bring the country together. We’re giving a portion of the population who has responded to the sort of race baiting the president has engaged in a sort of free pass and it generates divisions.

 (43:13)
And we’re also talking about it in terms of the president talks about manhood and being strong and you don’t need the mask. I think we have to start appealing to the better side of human nature by pointing out that that mask is not so much to protect me. It’s if I have it, it’s to protect you against me. It’s to protect other people. And it’s called patriotism. It’s called responsibility. It’s called making sure you look out for the other person. And we have spent too much time, if you notice, the president puts everything in terms of him. And I’m not being facetious, everything is him. It’s I don’t think, or I don’t take responsibility or I didn’t do that, or I believe that. I mean, it’s not about I. It’s about us.

 (44:10)
And I think changing the tone of an administration across the board, allowing scientists to speak, making sure that people understand the facts, good, bad, and indifferent. And when a mistake is made to say, “I made a mistake, I was wrong. Shouldn’t have done it that way. We should do it this way.” I think all those things change the atmosphere.

 (44:34)
Let me conclude it by saying this, and I apologize, you’ve heard me say this before. The words of a president matter. No matter who the president is, no matter how responsible or irresponsible the president is. A president, whomever he or she is, can take us to war or bring peace, can have markets rise or fall, appeal to the senior side of humanity or to our better angels. It matters. It really matters. And so I think it’s about the tone. And I think it goes across the board.

 (45:10)
I’ll conclude with this. I know that I was criticized, legitimately criticized, during the primaries, by saying that I plan on uniting the country, bringing Democrats and Republicans together. We have to do that. If we can’t do that, we can’t function. We have to bring the country together. And I think on this piece, if in fact we stand up, and by the way, don’t hold me to the numbers, please, you can correct me on this, but I think something like 70 or 74 or 75% of the American people think you should wear a mask. The overwhelming number of people think you should take these precautions and so on, think we should open more slowly. Well, I think that we should be talking to our better angels and actually making people indirectly feel guilty for not doing the right thing, appeal to their better nature.

 (46:10)
I know that sounds almost idealistic, but it’s not. Remind people. You don’t wear this mask, you end up hurting someone or you get infected, you take it home to your child. You can take it home to your mother and your father and your husband, your wife. You have a moral obligation because it really is. It really is. Thank you.

 (46:35)
Guys, I really do have to go. I apologize. I’m going to get in real trouble. I’m probably already in trouble, but thank you. Go ahead. What’s the last? I’m sorry.

Speaker 3: (46:48)
Good to see you out and about Mr. Vice President. I’m a little confused about the delineation, about the destruction of monuments. You talk about the fathers of this country, Washington, Jefferson, is worthy of preservation. Are Confederate monuments worthy of preservation? Should they be torn down in the manner that they are being torn down without the vote of local elected officials?

 (47:08)
Well, I think it’s very different. I think it’s better if they’re taken down like they took the Confederate flag off the Mississippi flag. That’s the better way of doing it, but I can understand. I can understand the anger and anguish that people feel by having for years and years been under the statue of Robert E. Lee, if you’re an African American.

 (47:32)
So it’s a difference. It’s always better to do it peacefully, but there’s a distinction between. I shift responsibility and I think the elected officials where those statues are have a responsibility to move. Put them in museums, get them down. But don’t expect if you have sitting in front of you after all these years and we finally, finally are going through another phase of maybe responding to the systemic racism in America, and what we’ve seen happen, is don’t be surprised if someone pulls down the statue of Jefferson Davis. It’s better that they do not, but is fundamentally different than pulling down the statue or going to the Lincoln Memorial and trying to pull a… Not Lincoln Memorial. That’s a bad example. The Jefferson Memorial and grabbing Jefferson off his chair.

Speaker 3: (48:33)
Two quickies. Will you commit to three debates?

 (48:37)
Oh yes.

Speaker 3: (48:38)
Three?

 (48:38)
Three. Yeah. I commit to it. Look, I am committed to following the debate, the National Debate Group that sets up these debates, who they pick as the moderators, three of them. It’s been this way for a long time. The first one is a one-on-one debate with a moderator. The next one is led by a town meeting set and a third one is a normal debate again. I commit to those, I’m looking forward to them.

Speaker 3: (49:06)
Last question real quick. Some have speculated-

 (49:08)
You’re a lying dog-

Speaker 3: (49:09)
That you are subject to some degree of cognitive decline. I’m 65. I don’t have word recollection that I used to have. I forget my train of thought from time to time. You’ve got 12 years on me, sir. Have you been tested for some degree of cognitive decline?

 (49:25)
I’ve been testing. I’m constantly testing. Look, all you got to do is watch me and I can hardly wait to compare my cognitive capability to the cognitive capability of the man I’m running against. Thank you so much.



 (01:53)
Mr. Mayor, thanks for your hospitality. And to all the elected officials that are here, I’m bringing you greetings.

 (02:01)
“I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe.” George Floyd’s last words, but they didn’t die with him. They’re still being heard echoing all across this nation. They speak to a nation where too often, just the color of your skin, puts your life at risk. They speak to a nation where more than 100,000 people have lost their lives to the virus, and 40 million have filed for unemployment with the disproportionate number of those deaths in job losses, concentrated in black and Brown communities. And they speak to a nation where every day, millions of people, millions, not at the moment of losing their life, but in the course of living their life are saying to themselves, “I can’t breathe.”

 (02:57)
It’s a wake up call to our nation, in my view, it’s for all of us, and I mean all of us. It’s not the first time we’ve heard those words. They’re the same words we heard from Eric Garner when his life was taken away six years ago. But it’s time to listen to those words, to try to understand them, to respond to them, respond with action. Our country is crying out for leadership, leadership that can unite us, leadership that brings us together, leadership that can recognize pain and deep grief of communities that have had a knee on their neck for a long time.

 (03:39)
There’s no place for violence, no place for looting or destroying property or burning churches or destroying businesses. Many of them built by the very people of color who for the first time in their lives are beginning to realize their dreams and build wealth for their families, nor is it acceptable for our police sworn to protect and serve all people to escalate tension resort to excessive violence.

 (04:04)
We need to distinguish between legitimate, peaceful protest and opportunistic violent destruction. We have to be vigilant about the violence that’s being done by this incumbent president to our economy and to the pursuit of justice.

 (04:22)
When peaceful protestors dispersed in order for a president, a president, from the doorstep of the people’s house, the white house, using tear gas and flash grenades in order to stage a photo op, a photo op, in one of the most historic churches in the country, or at least in Washington, DC. We can be forgiven for believing the president is more interested in power than in principle. We’re just serving the passions of his base than the needs of the people in his care. For that’s what the presidency is, the duty to care, to care for all of us, not just those who vote for us, but all of us, not just our donors, but all of us.

 (05:15)
The president held up the Bible at St. John’s church yesterday. I just wish he opened it once in a while instead of brandishing it. If he opened it, he could have learned something. We’re all called to love one another as we love ourselves, it’s really hard work, but it’s the work of America. Donald Trump isn’t interested in doing that work, instead he’s preening and sweeping away all the guard rails, the law that protected our democracy, guardrails that have helped make possible this nation’s path to more perfect union, a union that constantly requires reform and rededication. And yes, the protest from voices that are mistreated, ignored, left out or left behind, but it is a union, a union worth fighting for? And that’s why I’m running for president.

 (06:13)
In addition to the Bible, the president might also want to open the US constitution once in a while. If he did, he’d find a thing called the first amendment and what it says in the beginning, it says the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition their government for redress and grievances. It’s kind of an essential notion building into this country.

 (06:42)
Mr. President that’s America, that’s America. No horses rising up on their hind legs to push back peaceful protest, not using the American military to move against the American people. This is a nation of values. Our freedom to speak is a cherished knowledge that lives inside every American, almost from the time you’re a kid. We’re not allowing any president to quiet our voice. We won’t let those who see this as an opportunity to sow chaos, throw up a smoke screen, to distract us from real legitimate grievances at the heart of these protests. We can’t, we can’t leave this moment, we can’t leave this moment thinking that we can once again turn away and do nothing. We can’t do that this time. We just can’t. The moment has come for our nation to deal with systemic racism, to deal with the growing economic inequity that exists in our nation, to deal with the denial of the promise of this nation made to so many.

 (08:01)
I’ve said from the outset of this election, that we’re in the battle for the soul of this nation, and we are in the battle for the soul of this nation. When we believe it may be most importantly, who we want to be, it’s all stake as truer today than it has ever been at least in my lifetime. And it’s this urgency, it’s in this urgency we can find a path forward.

 (08:33)
The history of this nation teaches us that in some of our darkest moments of despair, we’ve made some of our greatest progress. Some of our darkest moments, the 13th, 14th, 15th amendments followed the civil war. The greatest economic growth in world history grew out of the great depression. Civil Rights Act of 1964 and ’60, the Voting Rights Act of ’65 came in the tracks of Bull Connors vicious dogs. To paraphrase Reverend Barber, “It’s the morning we find hope. It’s in the morning we find hope when we mourn.” But it’s going to take more than talk. We had talked before, we had protest before, we’ve got to now vow to make this at least an era of action and reverse the systemic racism with a long overdue concrete changes. The action will not be completed in the first hundred days of my presidency, if I’m fortunate enough to be elected, or even in my entire term. It’s going to take the work of a generation. But if this agenda will take time to complete, it should not wait for the first hundred days of my presidency to get started. A down payment on what is long overdue should come now, should come immediately.

 (10:07)
I call on the Congress to act this month on measures that will be the first step in this direction, starting with real police reform. Congressman Jeffries has a Bill to outlaw choke Kohl’s. Congress should put it on the president’s desk in the next few days. There are other measures, to stop transferring weapons of war to police forces, improve oversight and accountability, to create a model use of force standard, that also should be made law this month. No more excuses, no delays. If Mitch McConnell can bring in the United States Senate to confirm Trump’s on qualified judicial nominees who will run rough shot over our constitution, now it’s time to pass legislation that will give true meaning to our constitutional promise of equal protection under the law.

 (10:54)
Looking ahead in the first hundred days of my presidency, I’ve committed to creating a national police oversight commission. I’ve long believed we need real community policing. We need each and every police department in the country to understand a comprehensive review of their undertaking, a comprehensive review of their hiring, their training, their deescalation. Some have already done it, some are in the process of doing it. The federal government should give, give the cities, the States the tools and the resources they need to implement reforms. More police officers meet the higher standards of their procession, most of them do it. All the more reason why bad cops should be dealt with severely and swiftly. We all need to take a hard look at the culture that allows for the senseless tragedies to keep happening.

 (11:45)
And we need to learn from the cities and the precincts that are getting it right. We know though, in order to have true American justice, we need economic justice as well. Here too, is there’s much to be done. As an immediate step, Congress should act now to rectify racial inequities that allow COVID-19 recovery funds to be diverted from where they live.

 (12:15)
I’ll be setting forth my agenda in economic justice and opportunity in the weeks and months ahead, but it begins with healthcare. Healthcare should be a right, not a privilege. The quickest route to universal coverage in this country is to expand on Obamacare. We can do it, we should do it. But this president, even now, in the midst of a public health crisis with a massive unemployment, well, wants to destroy it. He doesn’t care how many millions of Americans will be hurt because he’s consumed with this blinding ego when he comes to the Barack Obama, president Obama. The president should withdraw his lawsuit to strike down Obamacare and the Congress should prepare to pass the Act I proposed to expand Obamacare to millions more so everyone is covered.

 (13:03)
This last few months, we’ve seen America’s true heroes, healthcare workers, docs, nurses, delivery truck drivers, grocery store workers. We’ve come up with a new phrase for them, essential workers, essential workers. We need to do more than praise them. We need to pay them. We need to pay them because we weren’t clear before, it’s clear now. This country wasn’t built by wall street bankers and CEOs. It was built by the great American middle class, which is built by unions and our essential workers.

 (13:44)
I know there’s enormous fear and uncertainty and anger in the country. I understand. I know so many Americans are suffering, suffering loss of a loved one, suffering economic hardship, wondering can I feed my family tomorrow? What’s going to happen? Suffering under the weight of a generation after generation, after generation, of hurt and inflicted on people of color, on black, brown and native communities in particular. Like many of you, I know what it means to grieve. My losses are not the same as losses felt by so many, but I know what it feels like when you think you can’t go on. I know what it means to have that black hole in your chest where your grief is being sucked into it.

 (14:39)
Just a few days ago, marked the fifth anniversary of my son Beau’s passing of cancer. And there’s still moments when the pain is so great, it no different than the day I sat in that bed as he passed away. But I also know that the best way to bear loss and pain is to turn it into, that anger and anguish into purpose. And Americans know what our purpose is as a nation, it has to be guided, it has to be guided, it’s guided us from the very beginning.

 (15:22)
It’s been reported the day that president John F. Kennedy was assassinated, little Yolanda King came home from school and jumped in her daddy’s arms and said, “Oh daddy,” she said, “Now we’re never going to get our freedom.” Through daddy was reassuring, strong and brave, he said, “No, don’t worry, baby. It’s going to be okay. It’s going to be all right.” Amid the violence and fear, Dr. King, he persevered. He was driven by his dream, of a nation where justice runs down like water and righteousness like a mighty stream. Then in 1968, hate cut him down in Memphis. Two days before Dr. King was murdered, he gave a final Sunday sermon to Washington, where he told us that though the arc of the moral universe is long, he said it bends towards justice. And we know we can bend it because we have, we have to believe that’s still, that’s our purpose. It’s been our purpose in the very beginning, to become a nation where all men and women are not only created equal, but they’re treated equally, not just created equal, but treated equally, to become a nation, to find in Dr. King’s words, not only by the absence of tension, but by the presence of justice. It’s not enough just to not have tension, but justice.

 (17:17)
Today in America is hard to keep faith that justice is at hand. I know that, you know that. Pain is raw. The pain is real. The president of United States must be part of the solution, not the problem, but this president today is part of the problem and accelerates it. When he twitted the words, “When the looting starts, the shooting starts,” they weren’t the words of the president, they were words of a racist Miami police chief in the 60s. When he tweeted that “Protestors would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, when people would have been really hurt.” They weren’t the words of a president. They were the kind of words Bull Connor would have used unleashing his dogs on innocent women and children.

 (18:21)
The American story is a story about action and reaction. That’s what actually works. We can’t be naive about it. I wish I could say that hate began with Donald Trump and will end with him. It didn’t, and it won’t. American history isn’t a fairy tale with a guaranteed happy ending. The battle for the soul of this nation has been a constant push and pull for more than 240 years, a tug of war between the American ideal that we’re all created equal, and the harsh reality that racism has long torn us apart. The honest truth is that both elements are part the American character, both elements. At our best, the American ideal wins out. But it’s never a route, it’s always a fight and the battle is never fully won. But we can’t ignore the truth that we’re at our best when we open our hearts rather than to clench our fist.

 (19:35)
Donald Trump has turned this country into battlefield [inaudible 00:19:39] by old resentments and fresh fears. He thinks division helps him. His narcissism has become more important than the nation’s wellbeing that he leads. I ask every American, I mean this in the bottom of my heart, ask every American, look at where we are now and think a new. Is this who we are? Is this who we want to be? Is this we want to pass onto our children and our grandchildren, fear, anger, finger pointing rather than the pursuit of happiness? Incompetence and anxiety, self absorption, selfishness? Or do we want to be the America we know we can be? The America we know in our hearts, we could be and should be.

 (20:26)
Look, I look at the presidency as a very big job and nobody will get it right every time, and I won’t either, but I promise you this I won’t traffic in fear and division. I won’t fan the flames of hate. I’ll seek to heal the racial wounds that have long plagued country, not use them for political gain. I’ll do my job and I will take responsibility. I won’t blame others. I’ll never forget. I will never forget. I promise you. This job is not about me, it’s about you, it’s about us. I worked not only to rebuild a nation, but to build it better than it was, we are the only nation in the world that goes through a crisis and comes out better. To build a better future, that’s what America does, to build a better future. We build a future. It may in fact be the most American thing to do, build the future.

 (21:37)
We hunger for liberty the way Harriet Tubman and Frederick Douglas did. We thirst for the vote like Susan B. Anthony and Ella Baker and John Lewis did. We strive to explore the stars, cure disease, make an imperfect union more perfect than is been. We may come up short, but at our best we try.

 (22:07)
My fellow Americans, we’re facing a formidable enemies. They include not only the Coronavirus and a terrible impact on the lives and livelihoods, but also the selfishness and fear that have loomed over our national life for the last three years. And I choose those words advisedly, selfishness, and fear. Defeating those enemies requires us to do our duty. And that duty includes remembering who we should be, who we should be. We should be the America of FDR and Eisenhower, of Rosa parks and Martin Luther King Jr. Of Joan and Neil Armstrong. We should be the America that cherishes life, liberty, and courage, and above all, we should be the America that cherishes each other. Each and every one of us.

 (23:04)
We’re a nation in pain. We must not let our pain destroy us. We’re a nation enraged. We cannot let our rage consume us. We’re a nation that’s exhausted, but we will not allow our exhaustion defeat us. As president, is my commitment to all of you to lead on these issues and to listen, because I truly believe in my heart of hearts, we can overcome. When we stand together finally as one America, we will rise stronger than we were before. We’ll move that arc closer to justice. We’ll reach out to one another. So speak out for one another and please, please, to what’s recently been happening, take care of one another. This is the United States of America. There’s never been anything we’ve been unable to do when we set our mind to do it and we’ve done it together. Together, united, that’s what we are at our best.

 (24:23)
May God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you.




 (00:00)
Hello everyone on this day of prayer, where we try to understand God’s plan in our pain. To George’s family and friends, Jill and I know that deep hole in your hearts when you bury a piece of your soul deep in this earth. As I said to you privately, we know. We know you will never feel the same again. For most people, the numbness you feel now will slowly turn day after day, season after season into purpose through the memory of the one they lost. But for you that day has come before you can fully grieve. And unlike most, you must grieve in public. It is a burden. A burden that is now your purpose to change the world for the better in the name of George Floyd.

 (00:55)
Like so many others, I’ve watched with awe as you summon the absolute courage to channel God’s grace and show the good man George was. To stir justice too long dormant, to move millions to act peacefully and purposely, but among all the people around the world who feel connected to this tragedy are the ones who lost something that can never, ever be replaced. To George’s children and grandchild, I know you miss your dad and your granddad.

 (01:26)
Little Gianna, as I said to you when I saw you yesterday, you’re so brave. Daddy’s looking down. He’s so proud of you. I know you miss that bear hug that only he could give, the pure joy riding on his shoulders so you could touch the sky, the countless hours he spent playing any game you wanted because your smile, your laugh, your love is the only thing that mattered at the moment. I know you have a lot of questions, honey, no child should have to ask questions that too many black children have had to ask for generations. Why?

 (02:05)
Why is daddy gone? Looking through your eyes we should also be asking ourselves why the answer is so often too cruel and painful? Why in this nation do too many black Americans wake up knowing that they can lose their life? And of course, they’re just living their life. Why does justice not roll like a river or righteousness like a mighty stream? Why? Well ladies and gentlemen, you can’t turn away. We must not turn away. We cannot leave this moment thinking we can once again turn away from racism that stings at our very soul.

 (02:47)
From systemic abuse that still plagues american life. As Thurgood Marshall once implored, “America must dissent from indifference. It must dissent from fear, the hatred and the mistrust. We must dissent because America can do better, because America has no choice but to do better.” I grew up with Catholic social doctrine, which taught me that faith without works is dead, and you will know us by what we do. Ladies and gentlemen, you’ve got to deal with the denial, the promise of this nation to so many people for so long. It’s about who we are, what we believe, and maybe most importantly, who we want to be to ensure that all men and women are not only created equal, but are treated equally.

 (03:43)
We can heal this nation’s wounds and remember its pain, not callous the heart and forget. I know Reverend Sharpton is there in Houston with you today. Rev, I watched you speak from Ecclesiastic last week and Minnesota chapter three, verse one, everything there is a time and a purpose and a season under the heavens, but today, now is the time, the purpose, the season to listen and heal. Now is the time for racial justice. That’s the answer we must give to our children when they ask why. Because when there is justice for George Floyd, we will truly be on our way to racial justice in America. And then as you said Gianna, your daddy will have changed the world.

 (04:32)
May God be with you, George Floyd and your family. And the words of a hymn from my church based on the 91st Psalm, may he raise you up on eagle’s wings, bear you on the breadth of dawn and make you to shine like the sun and hold you in the palm of his hand. God bless you all. God bless you all.


C:\Users\mar_k\PycharmProjects\untitled\venv\Scripts\python.exe "C:/Users/mar_k/PycharmProjects/python crash course/testinggg.py"
 (00:00)
An act of brutality so elemental, it did more than deny one more black man in America his civil rights and his human rights. It denied him of his very humanity. It denied him of his life. Depriving George Floyd as it deprived Eric Garner, one of the things, every human being must be able to do, breathe, so simple, so basic, so brutal. With the same thing happened with Aubrey. The same thing happened with Brianna Taylor. The same thing with George Floyd. We’ve spoken their names aloud. We’d cried them out in pain and in horror. We chiseled them into a long suffering hearts. They’re the latest additions to the endless list of stolen potential wiped out unnecessarily. It’s a list that dates back more than 400 years; black men, black women, black children, the original sin of this country still stains our nation today.

 (01:00)
And sometimes we manage to overlook it. We just pushed forward with a thousand other tasks in our daily life, but it’s always there. And weeks like this, we see it plainly, that we’re a country with an open wound. None of us can turn away. None of us can be silent. None of us can any longer can we hear the words I can’t breathe and do nothing. We can’t fail victims like what Martin Luther King called “The appalling silence of good people.” Every day African-Americans go about their lives with a constant anxiety and trauma wondering who would be next? Imagine if every time your husband or son, wife or daughter left the house, you feared for their safety from bad actors and bad police. Imagine if you had to have that talk with your child about not asserting your rights, taking the abuse handed out to them just so they could make it home.

 (02:03)
Imagine having police called on you just for sitting in Starbucks or renting an Airbnb or watching birds. This is the norm black people in this country deal with. They don’t have to imagine it. The anger and frustration and the exhaustion, it’s undeniable, but that’s not the promise of America. It’s long past time that we made the promise of this nation real for all people. This is no time for incendiary tweets. It’s no time to encourage violence. This is a national crisis. We need real leadership right now, leadership that will bring everyone to the table so we can take measures to root out systemic racism. It’s time for us to take a hard look at the uncomfortable truths. It’s time for us to face that deep open wound we have in this nation.

 (03:00)
We need justice for George Floyd. We need real police reform that hold cops to a higher standard that so many of them actually meet. That holds bad cops accountable then repairs relationship between law enforcement and the community they’re sworn to protect. We need to stand up as a nation with the black community, with all minority communities, and come together as one America. That’s the challenge we face. It’s going to require those of us who sit in some position of influence to finally deal with the abuse of power. The pain is too immense for one community to bear alone. I believe it’s the duty of every American to grapple with it and to grapple with it now. With our complacency and our silence, we are complicit in perpetuating these cycles of violence. Nothing about this will be easy or comfortable, but do we simply allow this wound to scab over once more without treating the underlying injury, we’ll never truly heal.

The very soul of America is at stake. We must commit as a nation to pursue justice with every ounce of our being. We have to pursue it with real urgency. We’ve got to make real, the promise of America, which we’ve never fully grasped. That all men and women are equal. Not only in creation, but throughout their lives. Again, to George’s family, thanks for taking the time to talk to me. I promise you, I promise you, we’ll do everything in our power to see to it that justice is had for your brother, your cousin’s case. God love y’all. Folks, we got to stand up. We got to move. We got to change.



 (04:48)
Women are on the front lines as healthcare workers, doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, childcare workers, grocery store clerks, workers, and more and more are carrying on their backs the rest of the nation. Domestic violence survivors are at a heightened risk, forced to shelter in place with their abusers. Women’s access to reproductive healthcare is increasingly in jeopardy. The coronavirus can hit anyone, anywhere regardless of race, gender, economic status, or level of power.

 (05:20)
It doesn’t impact every community equally. It hits hard as those who are most vulnerable and who have the fewest resources, including women of color and low income women. This pandemic is pulling back the curtain on so many inequities in our society. The lack of paid sick leave for workers, the need for livable minimum wage. The need for stronger unemployment insurance. We’re going to dig into all of these issues and more in today’s discussion and I’m really thrilled to have my friend, the former Senator and former Secretary of State and the woman who should be president United States right now, Hillary Clinton. Welcome Hillary. It’s great to have you here.

 (06:00)
Thank you so much, Joe. It’s a real pleasure to be here with you and to be part of this very important discussion. And I am thrilled to be part of your campaign to not only endorse you, but to help highlight a lot of the issues that are at stake in this presidential election. As you just so rightly said, this terrible pandemic that we’re all going through hits a lot of Americans much harder than others.

 (06:33)
We’ve seen it firsthand in hospitalizations and in unfortunately fatalities. But we’ve also seen it when we look at the pictures of those people on the front lines. Do you know 80% of all healthcare workers in America are women? And one out of three jobs held by women in our country has been classified as essential. So this is an issue that affects all of us, young and old, every kind of background from every walk of life.

 (07:09)
But it is having a disproportionate impact on the front lines on women working, on women caring for others. On women holding down the home as we go through this together. So I want to add my voice to the many who have endorsed you to be our president. Just think of what a difference it would make right now if we had a president who not only listened to the science, put facts over fiction, but brought us together.

 (07:44)
Showed the kind of compassion and caring that we need from our president and which Joe Biden has been exemplifying throughout his entire life. Think of what it would mean if we had a real president, not just somebody who plays one on TV. But somebody who gets up every morning worried about the people that he’s responsible for leading during this crisis. Well, I know what a difference it would make because I’ve been there.

 (08:16)
I’ve seen firsthand what presidents can and should do and I like so many Americans really wish that we had that kind of leadership now. Joe Biden has been preparing for this moment his entire life. I’ve been privileged to work with him over the last 25+ years as first lady. Then for eight years in the Senate where I watched him build coalitions and work to bring people together to solve problems.

 (08:50)
Then during the Obama administration when I was privileged to be Secretary of State. I’ve been in the situation room with Joe as we debated and you know where we didn’t say what we thought people wanted to hear, we said what we believed. And we had a president then with President Obama who encouraged that. Think of it, who wanted to hear from each and every one of us. I’ve been in the lobby of the Senate, I’ve been in the cloak room and I’ve watched Joe bring people together. So for me, this is a moment that we need a leader, a president like Joe Biden.

 (09:29)
I also know a lot about Joe the person. I’ve seen him up close and personal now for many years. We have a lot of the same values in common, the same work ethic, the same belief in America, the same focus on family. And we share a common experience and a love of Scranton, Pennsylvania. When my great grandparents came from England and Wales, they ended up in Scranton and my grandfather and then my father grew up in a house on Diamond Avenue and while the randoms were living on Diamond Avenue, the Bidens were over on North Washington Street.

 (10:14)
And I’ve had a lot of time to visit Scranton, talk about Scranton with Joe and one memorable occasion we were there together and he said, “Hey, let’s go see the house that I lived in when I was a little boy.” And if you know Joe Biden, you know the words were out of his mouth and we were racing to get there. And of course we got there and he talked his way in. It wasn’t hard because the woman who was at home immediately recognized him and knew him.

 (10:47)
And then we went through the house with Joe regaling me with these great stories about his dad, Joe Sr. And his mom Gene and the neighborhood. He was pointing out the window telling me who lived where when he was growing up. He told me one story that I loved. He said he was getting ready to go to a junior high school dance and he didn’t have any cufflinks. And so his very creative mother Gene got him a nut and bolt, and made a pair of cufflinks for him. But I think he said he was mortified by that.

 (11:22)
And he’s told her that and she just looked at him and she said, “Joey, if somebody says something to you about your cufflinks, you just say, what? You don’t have a pair like that.” It was that kind of love of family, that unconditional support that led Joe to be the extraordinary family member and father that he’s been through all the tragedy that so many of us have followed from afar, but know how deeply he connects with people who have similarly suffered a tragedy.

 (11:56)
When I was Secretary of State and Joe was Vice President, we had a standing date for breakfast on every Tuesday and I go over to the vice president’s house and we’d sit down, and we kind of talk about the world. We’d talk about what was going on, what the challenges facing us were, what was coming up in the white house, what the next meeting in the situation room was going to be.

 (12:21)
But we also talked about our families and we talked about his love of trains and his love of ice cream, which you know, knows no bounds as far as I can tell. So I’ve been not only a colleague of Joe Biden’s, I’ve been a friend. And I can tell you that I wish you were president right now, but I can’t wait until he is if all of us do our part to support the kind of person that we want back in the White House. To end the kind of disregard of not only American values, but American institutions, the rule of law and so much else that is at stake because of the current occupant.

 (13:07)
So I’m thrilled to be here with Joe from my home and his home during the very crazy, scary times that we find ourselves in to support his candidacy. And to talk about this really significant issue about women during this time of COVID-19 and how we need to learn from what is happening.

 (13:32)
This crisis has stripped bare for everybody to see the inequities in our healthcare system and our economic system. And we have to pull together to be prepared to make the changes that will fix what is wrong in America, so that we truly can live up to be the best versions of ourselves. And I think Joe Biden can lead us there. Thanks Joe.

 (13:56)
Oh, Hillary, thank you. We are friends. Gosh and we both have that famous quote by Jason “When I die, Dublin will be written on my heart.” I think will we die, Scranton will be written on our hearts. I really appreciate your friendship. And just a wonderful personal endorsement.

 (14:22)
Look, women, as you know better than I do, are facing the same issues we’re all are facing during this pandemic. But as I said at the beginning, they’re often facing them more acutely. As you point out, 80% of the healthcare workers are women, a lot of doctors, but a lot more nurses. Millions of women who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own, even more have had their hours slashed.

 (14:47)
And many women who are parents have to worry about more than losing their job. They aren’t just overwhelming numbers or aggregate statistics, everyone has a life thrown into uncertainty and a family unable to make ends meet. Congress gave President Trump the tool …

 (15:03)
We’ll make ends meet. Congress gave president Trump the tools, people on payroll, and the Cares Act, how they could help. But he hasn’t fully used them. President Trump, in my view, should be expanding short term compensation programs for workers rather than laying off people. Businesses should be reducing their hours and government will make up the difference in the pay. That will keep worker’s paychecks whole and ensure that distressed businesses don’t lose money. And we also have to do more to help the most vulnerable families who are struggling. And I think we should immediately freeze rent for qualifying individuals, hault foreclosures and evictions, as people get back on their feet, increase the SNAP program. This guy wanted to keep cutting SNAP. We should increase it by 15% during this deepening recession. And temporarily provide low income families with about a hundred dollars per month extra in nutritional support.

 (15:58)
So, my question to you is, Hillary, what other things should we be talking about, thinking about to support the millions of women who have lost their jobs as a result of this crisis. What else? I mean, you’ve been way ahead on these issues for a long time. What else do you think we should be talking about?

 (16:16)
Well, first, Joe, I endorse everything you said. And it really does trouble me that the president has not been willing to do everything you just listed. And, in fact, his administration was poised to take action that would make life harder. One of the problems that I am incredibly worried about is our food supply and getting enough nutritious food to people. We already have a problem in our country, even before this pandemic, of making sure that people in every area, in parts of our cities where there are food deserts, in rural areas where there’s not a steady supply of nutritious food. The schools having to close down, meaning that there was not going to be a school lunch and school breakfast program. So, I really applaud everybody who has been working on that and has been filling in the gaps.

 (17:16)
But our country as a whole has to make a real commitment to ensuring that, in this time period with the incredible economic pressures people are facing, plus the problems that exist in making sure every part of the country has adequate food supply, that we’re going to be there. We’re going to be there for everybody, for every mom worries about what she’s going to feed her kids, for every grandmother who is trying to take care of a sick or elderly spouse and needs good nutrition, for everybody who is out there on the front lines, either at home or outside. So, food has to be at the top of the list.

 (17:56)
Secondly, as you rightly point out, we know that, once again, big surprise, too much of the money that was in these recovery acts have gone to the wrong people. They’ve ended up in the hands of public corporations or other well off entities and individuals. That is just shameful. And so, whatever happens going forward, we need to fix that. Money needs to get to those small businesses and into the hands of employees.

 (18:24)
And I share your belief that we should have tried to keep people employed. Making sure that, rather than being laid off or furloughed, that they could keep being paid and be on that payroll so that, when time does come to reopen in different parts of the country on a rolling basis, they’d be ready to go. But that’s not what we did. And now, we know that even this latest traunch of money, the SBA is failing at getting it into the hands of the people who need it. And a lot of state unemployment systems are woefully behind the time. They don’t have the technology. They don’t have the manpower to be able to get people answers as soon as possible. And too many people are being left out of even that program.

 (19:13)
So, we need to fill in the blanks. We need to streamline the process. We need to get money into people’s hands. We need to make sure that nutritional needs are met. For goodness sakes, don’t cut back the SNAP program, which for those watching and may not know, it used to be called food stamps. But it is supplemental nutrition assistance for people. And right now we need that. And we need to make sure that everybody who needs a good, nutritious meal can get it.

 (19:40)
And again, I want to do a big shout out to all of the charities, all of the localities that are trying to fill that gap. But it should be helped and supported by the federal government. And I want to say one other thing too, which is, as you’ve been pointing out in your podcasts, and your town halls, and other technological encounters with voters, which I know must be killing you, Joe Biden, one of the best retail politicians there is, that you’re sitting in your house doing this. But that’s what we’ve got to do. We still don’t understand what the federal government is going to do to help states and localities be able to do the testing that they need, the tracking that they need, and the isolating that they need to be able to safely open up in the days and weeks ahead.

 (20:33)
So, we’ve got economic problems facing us that are being, in my view, inadequately addressed by this administration. And then, we have the incoherent, really impossibly indifferent, insensitive approach that we’ve seen every day on our TVs from the administration when it comes to getting us back healthy so that we can actually get the economy open and get back to work again.

 (20:59)
You know, Hillary, it’s amazing. When we used to have those breakfast once a week and we talked about a lot of things. And one of the things we did talk about is, beyond foreign policy, within family, and all the things we talked about was about how government mattered. And there had to be oversight. There had to be transparency. And so, the interesting thing that really bothers me with this president, when they passed the Cares Act, there’s a lot of good things in it, he essentially eliminated the inspector general. There’s virtually no transparency. We should know exactly where every single dollar went. Even some of the big corporations who got money said, whoa, wait a minute. I didn’t know. I wasn’t supposed to get it. Some have given it back, ten, 15 million dollars there giving them. And they are billion dollar corporations. And so, you see that happening. But the idea of not having transparency, knowing exactly where the money went so people can judge whether it’s consistent with what the Congress passed is a big deal.

 (22:10)
The second thing is, you saw that Chuck and Nancy, the minority leader and the speaker on the Democratic side tried very hard to get money in for state and local governments. Remember how we did that during the Recovery Act? Because, what was happening? It saved the jobs of thousands and thousands of teachers, police officers, firefighters, sanitation workers, all of those folks. Because, as you know better than anybody, the states have to have balanced budgets. The cities have to have balanced budgets. They can’t go into deficit spending. And they weren’t able to get that done.

 (22:44)
And so, I completely agree with you. While we needed to do all we can to help women and families get through this crisis, when we get to the other side, it seems to me, and you referenced this when you first spoke, we can’t just build back to where we were before. We have to build a much more inclusive, much more equitable, middle-class and an economy that everybody gets a fair shot at. And we have to increase the minimum wage.

 (23:12)
This crisis further heightened the critical work of low income workers. I mean, one job should be enough to raise a family on. And we have to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour, which you’ve worked for, and I’ve worked for for a long time. And this is something we worked together for for many years. But it’s way past time to have equal pay for equal work, which has been one of your strongest, strongest pursuits in your career. Our administration, we signed the first law, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act.

 (23:45)
Right.

 (23:45)
We thought that was a big start. And it was. But I think we have to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act. We need to have paid sick leave available for every worker. We’ve got to make sure it’s not just a temporary thing. So, if you get sick, you’re not forgoing a paycheck to stay home. And we need to provide 12 weeks of paid family medical and medical leave so you can take care of your loved one, if they need you. And these are basic, basic protections that we should be providing to workers. And we’ve tried for a while. So much more needs to be done.

 (24:17)
Here’s my point. I think, as you applied, I think the blinders have sort of been taken off. Not that people were bad, they didn’t not want to help. They just didn’t fully understand the disadvantage so many people who make their lives function for them what they were going through, I don’t think they had any idea what they were going through.

 (24:39)
So, my next question for you is, it seems to me we’re going to face a monumental task of rebuilding our economy and the middle class. And how do you think, I think we’re in the same page, but I want the folks to hear. How do you think, how would you recommend we start to take advantage of… I always say, and my staff is tired of hearing me say it, that we’re one of the few nations that, when we’re faced with a gigantic crisis, we embrace it. We fix it. A lot of people hurt. All those lost lives are never going to come back. And there’s going to be a hole in the hearts of millions of families out there. But we always come back and we come back stronger. We come back stronger and we end up in a better place than before it all happened. So, what do you think we should be focusing on? And are you as optimistic as I am that we can do this?

 (25:34)
I am. And I agree with you, Joe, that I think out of this terrible tragedy of the pandemic, and the loss of life, and loss of income, and everything we’re suffering through, this is a moment of reckoning that really we are challenged.

 (25:52)
Good way to put it.

 (25:52)
Are we going to build back stronger? Are we going to build on our foundation the kind of America that you and I would like to see for our children and our grandchildren? And that’s really what’s going to be on the ballot in this election. When it all is stripped away, what kind of America are people going to be voting for? And just to echo what you pointed out, number one on transparency, one of the things that I tried to do in the State Department was to create a visualization of where foreign aid went.

 (26:27)
Yep.

 (26:27)
Because so many people thought we were giving foreign aid in huge amounts to all kinds of weird stuff. And indeed, we could justify where it went. For example, going after the AIDS crisis in Africa. Not only the right thing to do, but a smart thing because trying to control a different kind of pandemic was good for the United States and the rest of the world.

 (26:49)
So, I think that part of the remedy here has to be almost radical transparency about where the money goes. Because right now you’re right. There were good things in the two pieces of legislation that were signed into law, but there’s a lot of weird stuff in there that people need to see. And they need to understand where is the money going? Let’s follow the money.

 (27:17)
And I think one of the hallmarks of your presidency can be a commitment to the kind of transparency that will hopefully begin to rebuild trust, because trust is the glue that holds a democracy together. And right now, we are in an age of deliberate disinflation. And the reason for that is to destroy trust. If you can’t believe what your leaders say, if you can’t believe or you’re told not to believe what the press says, if you can’t believe what anybody says, then you can’t trust each other enough to solve the problems that we jointly face. So, I am hugely supportive of increasing both transparency and accountability.

 (28:02)
And then, on all of the various issues that you addressed, hopefully the time is now. We’ve been working for equal pay for equal work, the Paycheck Fairness Act, which I sponsored, you sponsored, voted for whenever we got a chance, but always ran into a brick wall of opposition. Well, now all of a sudden, those essential jobs that people are doing, we used to just walk by that woman stocking that grocery shelf, we didn’t pay attention to the sanitation worker that was picking up our garbage, well, all of a sudden, you know what? Those jobs are what’s keeping us going. And the Paycheck Fairness Act should be enacted.

 (28:44)
Also, paid leave. We are way overdue. We are so far beyond the rest of the world. And it’s shameful. The idea that a lot of people, before this pandemic got really full-blown, were worried that they couldn’t take time off, even if they were feeling sick or somebody in their house was sick, because they would lose their job.

 (29:06)
Yep.

 (29:07)
That is not only disgraceful, it is so outdated. It is anachronistic. And that has got to be fixed. There’s a lot of things that will give more support, more security to working families. And we need to join the rest of the developed world to make sure that we actually deliver on that.

 (29:28)
And the final point, which you also were alluding to is we got to make government work in visible ways for people. Because right now, I’m thrilled to see that, frankly, governors of both parties who have grabbed hold of this pandemic made the tough decisions, shut down their economies, have been listening to the scientists. They’re actually getting really high marks from across the political spectrum because they are leaders who are problem solvers. They are humble.

 (30:03)
They are leaders who are problem solvers. They are humble enough to know they don’t possibly have all the answers, but they want to listen to the people who can help them try to find them. So, that kind of leadership may be back in vogue. We’ve gone through a period where I think some people might’ve forgotten that it really does matter who your mayor is, who your governor is, and yes, who your president is. So, rebuilding that belief in governing as a way of delivering for people and making their lives a little easier, a little better, a little safer, a little healthier, all of that, I think now we have a chance to have many more people paying attention and listening than we did before. And that’s why I think you are exactly the right person at the right time with your background and your values and your compassion to be able to make that case.

 (30:57)
Well, you’re very generous but look, there’s so many things that I’d like to continue to talk to you about. We’re supposed to take questions from the audience but as usual, it’s like one of our breakfasts. But look, one of the things that I keep saying and I really mean it, I think this crisis has allowed decent people who haven’t focused before to realize that when the store clerk is making enough money to take care of their family, the wealthy guy down the street’s better off. Everybody’s better off. When you have a system where the people who you rely on the most are in a position to be able to do their job and do it and live a decent life, that raises your standard. This notion is outmoded that somehow if people who are struggling get helped, it’s going to drain the resources from others.

 (32:06)
Amen.

 (32:08)
The opposite happens. When you raise salaries, all salaries go up, everybody does better. And by the way, corporate America is doing fine without having to worry about what’s going to happen here. These guys and women, we’ve gotten out of whack the way we measure things, but everybody does better when we treat people and economically fairly and give them opportunities. Look, I know I’m tempted to ask you another question, but look, we have to take a few questions and Michelle Kwan is going to read some questions to us that were submitted and Michelle, welcome and thank you for all your involvement throughout this effort for both Hillary and before and me. So, Michelle, fire away.

Michelle Kwan: (32:57)
All right, thank you so much, vice president Biden. Our first question comes from Tiffany in Connecticut. She asked, “There are a lot of women who are in abusive relationships and are now stuck at home with their abusers. What are ways how women being abused can get help and know that they have a safe place to go?”

 (33:18)
Well, thanks Michelle, and I’m so glad Tiffany is asking that question. Violence against women is a huge problem and especially right now and Hillary and I’ve worked very hard on trying to end violence against women, wrote that legislation and it’s been one of the leading causes of my life. I’ve met thousands of domestic violence victims for real, trying to get the law passed and finally getting it passed and working beyond that. And it’s heartbreaking to know the suffering they have experienced and are experiencing, but I also know how much courage they have. Our support for victims has to match the courage they show every day. First, I want victims to know they are not alone. The National Domestic Violence Hotline is there for them. It might be hard to make that call when you are essentially trapped in a home because of the stay at home order that exists, but you can text and you can chat online.

 (34:18)
So, please reach out for help. The hotline can connect you to an emergency shelter. They can help you find a safe place to go. They can provide you to get out of the house safely and federal and state governments need to do everything they can to help survivors at this moment in time. That means one, providing survivors a place to live where they can stay safe and healthy. We have violence women’s shelters and homes, but we have to move beyond that in this crisis. We should empower FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Organization, to work with every state so they immediately increased shelter options, including contracting with hotels and motels to provide shelter modifications like sleeping and just have the idea that we deal with trailers that are available for people as well.

 (35:10)
We have to also provide immediate economic relief to survivors. No one should be forced to stay with their abuser because they don’t have the resources to leave. Particularly, the vast majority of kids in the street are there because their moms are victims of violence. We need to provide survivors and a way we provide for survivors is we include cash assistance, unemployment insurance, flexible to their needs and paid safe days and safe leave. We have to make sure all survivors, survivors of color, immigrants, Native American survivors, older survivors, those with disabilities, the LGBTQ community survivors, they all need support. And we have to make sure survivors and services can be connected. I’ve worked very to make that hotline as the state of the art telecommunications. When you call, they can tell where you are, they can get there in a hurry with real police protection if you need it.

 (36:13)
Now is time to push again. We have to equip our hotlines and vital service providers and service providers with the tools that they need to take care of the person who’s calling. There’s a lot more to be said about this topic and today I’ve released a proposal on how I’d address the scourge of violence against women during this public health crisis. Go to joebiden.com and I hope you’ll look them over because there’s ways out. The worst thing in the world is being a prisoner in your own home, and so many people are right now. Hillary-

 (36:49)
Well, Joe, yeah. Look, I looked at the policy that you’re releasing. It is state-of-the-art. I hope everybody watching goes to your website and starts looking and reading your policies. You’ve got an incredibly progressive, detailed set of policies already on your website. But there’s a relation to a point you made earlier and that is this is an issue, violence against women, domestic violence, that is one of the many issues that depend upon state and local resources. Because as you said, you call that hotline, very often the hotline will refer you to a shelter or if necessary police or EMT workers to your door. Well, those are local resources and people who think we don’t need to reimburse and help state and local governments are just again missing the forest for the trees. If you believe in police protection, fire protection, EMT services, hotline shelters for domestic violence survivors and everything else, you’ve got to know that the budgets of our state and local governments during this crisis have been drained.

 (38:14)
And we’ve got to get them some relief to be able to provide the services that not only individuals like domestic violence survivors need, but every one of us. We don’t know when we need police or fire or EMT or anything that we might in the future require. We know we need sanitation and public health and all the rest of it, all of which needs to be funded adequately. So, I think the work you’ve done, as long as I’ve known you, on behalf of domestic violence, the violence against women legislation that you wrote and you led, I remember when we set up the office and the justice department in the Clinton administration. That was part of your legislation. So, this issue deserves to be focused on, and we need to encourage people call that hotline. Don’t suffer in silence. Either you or your children, seek help even now during this pandemic crisis, and then let’s all resolve that we’re going to do even better following the outline of the policy that you’ve put out to make sure that everyone in every home in America can be as safe as they deserve to be.

Michelle Kwan: (39:32)
Thank you so much, secretary Clinton. Our next question comes from Hannah in Indianapolis. As the United States continues to endure the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, what would you do to make sure women, especially poor and marginalized women, have access to all women’s healthcare services?

 (39:51)
Well, Michelle, the first thing I’d do, and I thank the question for that important question is that I would do for all workers is make sure that COVID-19 treatment, not just testing, is cost free. Even when we had the test, which we don’t sufficiently, people who have access are worried to go get the test because they’re going to be charged. They believe that, so it has to be cost free and the treatment cost fee. No one should have to pay a dollar out of pocket for that. Now, I’ve called for that on March the 12th and it should be part of the next congressional package, I hope. The next thing I would do is help laid off workers to ensure they could keep their health insurance through COBRA. Meaning that if their health insurance is provided by their company, which they pay into, it’s really expensive for most families to make up the difference. There’s a thing called COBRA, you can keep that insurance. If the company can no longer pay their share, you make up the difference.

 (40:48)
Well, there have been multiple times more than the existing premium that you should have to pay because your employer is no longer making contributions toward that premium. And so, I think the government should make up that difference for people now. And this is a crisis and Trump and the Congress should pick up the full cost of the COBRA premiums that have to be made up right now in my view. And if you don’t have employer sponsored insurance, we should immediately reopen what’s called the open enrollment so they can sign up for coverage and create an affordable public option that we can do through the Affordable Care Act, which the president is still trying to eliminate right as we speak. And finally, we need to ensure that women have access to all health services during this crisis. Abortion is an essential health healthcare service. It’s being used as a political wedge right now and it shouldn’t be. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Medical Association agree that it shouldn’t be categorized as a procedure that can be delayed. It can’t. And in this case, healthcare delayed means healthcare denied. States should not be using public health crises to infringe on a women’s constitutional rights. There’s more to say, but I know I’m going too long in these answers. Hillary, floor’s yours.

 (42:08)
Well, look, I think you’re going right down the path that people need to follow you on because as you rightly point out, this is another opportunity I hope for the American people to see why those of us who support universal health care have been doing so for so many years. There should not be any question at any time, but particularly at the height of a pandemic, that people will have the healthcare that they deserve because of cost or availability. So I’m hoping, Joe, that as you have proposed, we try to fill all those gaps, a public option going as far as we possibly can, lowering the age of Medicare, going as far as we possibly can. Making sure that everybody has access to quality, affordable healthcare, and now we know why. You can’t hide from a virus.

 (43:12)
We can try to stay inside and hope that we don’t come in contact with anyone who’s carrying it. Although, with so many people being asymptomatic, it’s a little hard to know even in your daily life going to the store or the pharmacy, whether you might encounter somebody, which is why we should keep wearing masks and washing our hands and everything else we’re told to do. But why add to that existing anxiety, the panic, the fear that if you get sick you won’t be able to afford healthcare. That is wrong. It is fundamentally wrong. It is against our moral values. Every religious value that I’m aware of, and yet you’re 100% right that this administration, this white house, as we speak are still trying to strip the Affordable Care Act.

 (44:04)
Now, and let’s remember one other thing, and I don’t think this has gotten enough attention. President Trump is on the record from his trip to Davos in the Swiss Alps of saying that it was time to go after social security and Medicare. So, this is a high stakes time because of the pandemic, but this is also a really high stakes election, and every form of healthcare should continue to be available, including reproductive healthcare for every woman in this country. And then, it needs to be part of a much larger system that eventually, and quickly I hope, gets us to universal healthcare. So, I can only say amen to everything you’re saying, but also to, again, enlist people that this would be a terrible crisis to waste, as the old saying goes-

 (45:03)
That this would be a terrible crisis to waste as the old saying goes. We’ve learned a lot about what our absolute frailties are in our country when it comes to health justice and economic justice so let’s be resolved that we’re going to solve those once you’re elected president.

 (45:19)
I promise you that’s going to be my objective.

Michelle Kwan: (45:23)
Thank you so much. Secretary Clinton and Vice President Biden. Our last question comes from Asha a pharmacist from New Jersey. Asha is an essential worker during this crisis and wonders what you would do as president to ensure she can do her job safely.

 (45:39)
Asha you’re one of the people we’ve been talking about the whole time here an essential worker. What you’re doing is important all the time but particularly right now to provide one essential workers with all they need for personal protective equipment that you need to do your job safely. I urged the president to use the full authority of what they call the Defense Production Act well over a month ago not only to surge production of critical protective gear and test and more but also ensure that they’re distributed swiftly and in full so that everybody has it and that means you. I have also urged the president to appoint what Hillary would have long ago done, a supply commander, someone who like in the military, has control of all the supplies in the middle of a war, knows where they have to go, controls them and with broad authority and deep logistical experience to step up and actually command our national supply chain for the critical equipment that you need but others need working with governors to get all frontline workers the lifesaving protection, the equipment they need.

 (46:46)
And also all workers like yourself who are putting their lives on the line should receive in my view premium pay. Now premium pay is no substitute for personal protective equipment it’s not, and it’s not a substitute for worker safety but we have to do as much as we can to support the millions of brave workers like you who have stayed on the job keeping the country running. I support what’s called and that the Democrats are pushing in the Congress pandemic premium pay, increase essential frontline workers that both the Senate and the House have proposed that in fact gives you more income.

 (47:23)
We need to make sure that if you God forbid get sick you get paid time off as well. We need to make paid sick leave available every worker and make sure it’s not just a temporary thing, if you get sick you’re not foregoing to paycheck to stay home. Now look, if you get sick you shouldn’t have to go to work because you’re worried about a paycheck. Especially now when we’re worried about the spread of this dangerous disease it’s critical that essential workers can stay home when they get sick and don’t spread the disease. And we need to provide 12 weeks of paid family medical and medical leave so you can take care of your loved ones.

 (48:03)
And look folks the whole idea here that’s become clear in my view if you excuse the addendum here when the president went to Davos and talked about, and I remember when I was making this case as vice president saying that the Republicans are going to try to cut Medicare and Social Security he said, “No, they’re not going to do that,” that’s been their objective. God love Paul Ryan he set out to do that and the president hadn’t given up on that cause and the cause is what we should be doing right now is a lot of our senior workers who are very old need an additional, an additional amount of social security now during this crisis.

 (48:49)
We should be increasing their social security payment while this crisis moves forward while we reform the whole social security system to provide for the ability of people who have had their pay cut, their social security payment cut because their spouse has passed, because for a whole lot of reasons this happens. We should make sure that they in fact are able to get more not less and we can do that by changing the way we fund social security. I won’t go into the whole deal but in the meantime right away we should be giving help right now an extra $1,000 to people who in fact are on social security that in fact are struggling on the limited amount they’re getting if they’re at the low end of that scale.

 (49:29)
But any rate, there’s a lot more to talk about I’m sorry. As I said, this is one of our breakfast either Hillary’s person will be coming in and saying, “Madam secretary” or my guy will be coming in and saying, “Now, Mr. Vice president, the president’s is waiting.” And usually when we’d walk in late we’d walked in late to a national security meeting with the president and he looked at both of us like, “Where the hell have you been?” At any rate, but thanks for everything I really appreciate it and I really anyway I know you’re going to answer that question as well but thank you.

 (50:05)
Oh listen a lot of good memories. You’re absolutely right and when you mentioned social security I have long advocated and I know you agree that we need to fix the disadvantage that women unfortunately bear under social security because when you take time out to care for children or an ailing spouse or ailing parents you’re out of the workforce and you don’t get the credit that you need to be able to have a more secure retirement when that becomes possible. So, the social security system, Medicare, they should not be in the bullseye target of this president and all of his plutocratic allies they need to be helped, to be strengthened and improved so that they actually do provide the quality of care that they should be and the amount of income that they should be offering.

 (51:09)
And on a final note Joe, I would just say to Asha who is on the front lines and thank you so much because clearly we can’t get through this without you and the millions of others who are doing what you’re doing this election really is a referendum on what kind of future we want for you and for all of the people in our country but particularly those frontline workers, those folks who have been really put under enormous economic pressure, the many millions that are now applying for unemployment. We’ve got to fix our systems friends. I mean we’ve just moved along on top of them trying to protect what we had against the concerted relentless effort by too many on the other side to rip away what we did have. But now if we get people to pay attention and to really look at what’s at stake for them, for their families, then I think we can have an election that really will matter about how we put us on a stronger foundation for the future and I’m thrilled to be here with Joe today.

 (52:26)
It is a little bit as you got a front view into our breakfast at the vice president’s house those years ago every Tuesday morning. But more than that what Joe is trying to do, what his candidacy is about, what his campaign stands for is a much better, safer, healthier, stronger future for every single American today and those who come after us. So Joe thank you, thank you for your leadership, thank you for your friendship and this was a lot of fun. I appreciate the chance to join you virtually in your basement to talk about issues that really matter to us and to millions and millions of other Americans.

 (53:11)
Well, I have to tell you something completely, honestly straightforward. I wish this were us doing this and my supporting your re-election for present of the United States. You won the majority of the vote. I think the way in which some of the states acted was just, anyway we would not, we’d have problems, we’d have the pandemic but you would have already been prepared for it, it still would have been hard but you would have done a lot to keep us from getting so in such a dire strait.

 (53:45)
Well, I’ll tell you one thing I would have done Joe which you know so well I would have read my daily intelligence briefings that were sounding the alarm January but apparently this president doesn’t do what we used to do.

 (54:00)
I did the foreign policy brief this morning which I do every morning with people who you know really well, former Secretary Blinken, Tony Blinken and a whole bunch of folks, Tom Donnelly and a whole range of people who were. And they were reading to me and we were talking about what happened, that article in the Washington Post yesterday and how many times, how many times the president was explicitly by his national security team warned of this pandemic, warned about it saying what had to be done. I think it was close to eight or nine specific times resulting in some of those folks in the intelligence community either being fired or just going underground I mean not being paid attention to it at all. I mean, you and I have had in you even more than me as the secretary of state I sat every single day with the president and got a national security briefing. And when you weren’t traveling the world you were at every one of those.

 (55:13)
And the idea that we would have been warned more than a half a dozen times explicitly by the intelligence committee of what was coming, what had happened, what China wasn’t doing, et cetera, and then be out there complimenting what a great job China was doing. I mean it’s just beyond and I assume, I shouldn’t assume anything but my guess is you would have read, that’s what you’re talking about. The question is did he just not read his, what we used to call the PDB or did he read it and not care? I presume to give him the more generous view that he just didn’t read it which is a totally ungenerous view I mean but I can’t fathom it. And look what it’s done to the intelligence community and its sense of whether or not it brings bad news to a president. Anyway, that’s a whole other subject maybe we should talk about one day but look I want to thank you everybody. I want to thank Hillary for joining us in this conversation today.

 (56:11)
And Hillary, I’m going to keep calling and asking for your advice. The Corona virus is shining a bright light on the inequities in our country and there’s so much work to do but I have no doubt we can meet these challenges brought on by this virus if we work together. The American people have never, not a joke I know you’re tired of hearing me say this, have never, ever, ever, ever let the country down given half a chance. They’re tough, there’s no quit in America. They’re prepared but we’ve got to do it together and it’s great being together with you Hillary. Thank you. And Michelle, thank you so very much I appreciate it. Thank you everyone for being in and listening.


